Felipe’s a good guy (I knew him when he was at MSFT) but this session
wasn’t anything exciting because it’s all old news. There are some
things humans are better at than computers, typically things involving
judgment such as “which is the best picture of this store?” Yes, I saw
that when Amazon first released [Mechanical Turk](http://www.mturk.com).

They did have a partner on stage, a company called [Casting
Words](http://castingwords.com/) that offers podcast transcription
services for 42 cents a minute. But how is that a business? I’m not sure
what kind of percentage Casting Words is making out of that 42 cents a
minute, but couldn’t I go directly to Mechanical Turk and ask for
transcription services myself? There are no Casting Words tasks
[currently on the site](http://www.mturk.com/mturk/findhits) as I type
this, but I imagine if I watch a while I’ll see a Casting Words task.
Then I could simply use a site like [HIT
Builder](http://www.hit-builder.com/) to farm out my own transcription
tasks. What’s my incentive to use Casting Words at all?

Furthermore, there’s not really a business model behind Mechanical Turk
itself. If Microsoft launched its own version, there would be plenty of
takers for that work as well – the workers will gravitate to where the
best paying and most interesting work they can do is. There’s no
incentive to provide your artificial artificial intelligence services
exclusively to one company. So Mechanical Turk wouldn’t work as a stand
alone business. But as a feature of Amazon it works great. In fact, when
the service first launched the only tasks came from [A9](http://a9.com).
I’m guessing it would be worth it to Amazon to run the service even if
they were the only ones using it.
