So since one of my jobs is to change how we evangelize architecture, I
thought it might be good to get some clarity around that term. I doubt
there’s a word more varied in definition in this industry than
architecture. I often joke is that we call both the person who sets
strategic technology direction for the enterprise and the person who
decides whether to use a linked list or an array an architect. Maybe
it’s not that bad, but “architect” does appear to have a wide range of
definitions.

I once moderated a discussion at the Strategic Architect Forum that
featured [Martin Fowler](http://www.martinfowler.com/) and this topic
came up. Fowler’s definition of architecture was something along the
lines of “The activities on a project that you do first because you
think they’ll be hard to change”. He suggested that asking someone to
show you their architecture was a sure way to find out the parts of the
project they thought most important or were most worried about. While
that’s interesting, I think it’s harmful to not have a consistent
definition of the term across the industry. Everyone knows what a
developer does. Nobody knows what an architect does. Well, it seems that
way anyway.

Maybe it’s because my degree is in engineering, but much of what we call
architecture in the computer industry feels more like engineering than
architecture. One of the [dictionary definitions of
architecture](http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=architecture) is
the “art and science of designing and erecting buildings.” [Engineering
is defined](http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=engineering) as
“The application of scientific and mathematical principles to practical
ends such as the design, manufacture, and operation of efficient and
economical structures, machines, processes, and systems.”

IMO, building a system that has a set of functional requirements (track
customers, process orders, etc) and non-functional constraints
(sub-second response time, support 10,000 concurrent users, use
Microsoft Windows platform, etc) is an engineering problem. Coming up
with the lists of functional requirements and non-functional constraints
is the architecture problem.

More on this tomorrow…
