Day 0 is almost done. Like yesterday, it’s been quiet, but the foot
traffic by the booth is improving. I missed the afternoon of the DSL
Tutorial tracking down a shipment of
[JOURNALs](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal/default.aspx)
that we are handing out at the conference. [Martin
Fowler](http://martinfowler.com/) stopped by to say hi and we chatted a
while about the Architecture Advisory Board. He missed the meeting a
couple weeks ago because of a communication screwup (i.e. I didn’t call
him) but he’s looking forward to working with us going forward. Some one
ribbed him for sitting in the Microsoft booth, so he pulled out his
[PowerBook](http://www.apple.com/powerbook/) (or maybe it was an
[iBook](http://www.apple.com/ibook/)). I told him that since he like
UNIX so much, we should install [Services for
UNIX](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/sfu) on his Windows laptop.
![:)](http://devhawk.net/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif)

This is a very different crowd from TechEd – not better or worse, just
different. Very heavy academic presence. I got a very interesting code
visualization demo from an MIT grad student. Flipping thru the
conference program, the vast majority of the speakers are from
universities. The majority of the remaining speakers are from IBM and to
a lesser extent Sun. There’s a small Microsoft presence among the
speakers – primarily related to Software Factories. It’s interesting,
however, that three of the six of the [invited
speakers](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=invited_speakers)
this year are from Microsoft.
