I wasn’t kidding about the calm before TechEd – I’ve been slammed for
the last 36 hours – hence the lack of posts. Between 11,000+ attendees,
our Road Rally and having to fill in for Pat, I’m only just now getting
a chance to blog, 36 hours after TechEd started.

I had some free time during the day Sunday, but there wasn’t anything
going on yet, so there wasn’t much to post. Then, Sunday night, we had
our Architect Road Rally, which I think was a success. There were some
issues – registration was a real problem in the beginning. The first
three buses brought 50 people each, most of whom we had to register on
site so it created a reg backlog. Even though we made some changes on
site – primarily not printing event-specific badges for on-site
registered attendees – I realize that registration really stunk for
about 30-45 minutes after the event started. I think that, once we got
past that issue, most people had a good time. Our event staff found a
great venue and hired a great company to provide entertainment in the
form of RC racing. [John](http://johnporcaro.typepad.com/blog/)
introduced me to the [Rallisport Challenge
2](http://www.xbox.com/en-us/rallisportchallenge2) people, so we had
Xboxes featuring RSC2. The raffles were very popular as were the event
shirts – I saw around a dozen people wearing the event shirts today. So,
other than the reg issues, I’d say the event worked out as well as I had
hoped. TechEd 2004 is our team’s first large scale event to be formally
involved in – our events typically run 250 attendees total. To compare,
we drew almost 300 for the Road Rally. Marketing an event like this is
really tough. The venue could support 300-400 people,  but there are
11,000+ TechEd attendees. Even if we only invited architects, there are
still somewhere around 1500 attendees who consider themselves architects
@ TechEd this year. In the end, while we could have done much better on
registration, I really enjoyed the party and think most attendees did
too. We certainly had a large number of people on the last couple of
busses back to the convention center.

Today started with SteveB’s keynote and the announcements of
[WSE2](http://msdn.microsoft.com/webservices/building/wse/)
availability, the [Information Bridge
Framework](http://msdn.microsoft.com/ibframework/), and the [VS Team
System](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/teamsystem).
[Becky](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/rdias/) demoed WSE2 + IBF and
Prashant demoed VS Team System. The website was live before the keynote
started, a fact I pointed out to [Peter](http://peterprovost.org/) who
[blogged](http://www.peterprovost.org/archive/2004/05/24/1292.aspx) it
as Steve was announcing it. Lots of people have been waiting for WSE2
RTM, but I’m really excited to see the response to Team System. I’m
working with *[p&p](http://www.microsoft.com/resources/practices)* on
some community efforts that will plug into the [Architect edition of
Team System](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/teamsystem/architect) –
watch for that in the coming months.

After the keynote, I delivered ARC300 and 302 –
[Pat’s](http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland) sessions. They both went well,
though I was pretty nervous during the ARC300 – the Metropolis Overview.
Funny, since I’ve delivered that session many times before. Of course, I
hadn’t ever delivered it to this large an audience (300 or so – standing
room only) or on tape. ARC 302 wasn’t well attended, but those who
showed got a preview of Pat’s drilldown on the parallels between the
evolution of buildings and applications as well as a good half hour
discussion about the metaphor. Maybe since I didn’t have high hopes for
that session, I was less nervous. Once Pat finished those new sessions,
we’ll tape him presenting them and get them up on the
[Architecture Strategy
Series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series) site as
soon as we can. 

After the day finished, I ran around getting some track-owner stuff done
for tomorrow and then had a HUGE margarita with my team. Now, I need
sleep very badly!
![:)](http://devhawk.net/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif)
