::: image-right
[![](http://hawkblogstorage.blob.core.windows.net/blog-content/20060216-1445-introducting-devhawk-designs/archelp.png)](http://www.zazzle.com/link.asp?associate_id=238197950402547873&redirect=product&product_id=235848130425737882)
:::

A while ago, I made a sign for my door that reads “Architecture Help 5¢”
(in homage to [Lucy’s psychiatry
stand](http://www.snoopy.com/comics/peanuts/fun_and_games/images/lucy_800x600.jpg)
in [Peanuts](http://www.snoopy.com/) of course.) I get the occasional
comment on it, so I decided to experiment and make a t-shirt out of it.
These days, making your own t-shirt is cake with online services such as
[CafePress](http://www.cafepress.com/), [T-Shirt
Junky](http://www.tshirtjunkie.com/) and
[Zazzle](http://www.zazzle.com/). I like Zazzle’s pricing structure the
best – they have a flat fee and pay you a royalty on sales. CafePress
has a baseline fee and you can then charge whatever you want on top of
that. I didn’t want to be mucking around with pricing, so I went with
Zazzle. Also, Zazzle has more choices and options for t-shirts than
CafePress did.

My Zazzle gallery is named [DevHawk
Designs](http://www.zazzle.com/harrypierson*). So far, I have two
products – the Architecture Help 5¢ shirt in
[black](http://www.zazzle.com/link.asp?associate_id=238197950402547873&redirect=product&product_id=235848130425737882)
and in
[white](http://www.zazzle.com/link.asp?associate_id=238197950402547873&redirect=product&product_id=235459386023641151),
though Zazzle allows you to customize the shirt so you can get it on
pink or navy blue if you really want it. I made it with [Expression
Graphic
Designer](http://www.microsoft.com/products/expression/en/graphic_designer),
though it’s such a simple design I’m sure I didn’t really exercise its
capabilities at all.

Other than me, I’m not sure who’s going to buy one of these. Believe me,
I have no vision of being the next
[ThinkGeek](http://www.thinkgeek.com/tshirts/). But let me know what you
think, good or bad.
