Microsoft-Watch jumped on the blog bandwagon by creating a list of [MSFT
bloggers](http://www.microsoft-watch.com/article2/0,4248,852932,00.asp).
It’s been very popular – I’ve had 467 referrals from them since they
posted the list. Apparently, there’s also a
[newsletter](https://ziffdavis.omeda.com/zm/msw/msw.cgi?intro2&p=5BZWA00082),
which had its latest issue come out on this past Friday. A friend sent
me a copy indicating that “Dude, you’re famous”. They quoted my recent
[blog entry](http://devhawk.net/2003/03/13/blogging-from-office-2003/)
regarding InfoPath as a developer tool almost entirely. They mention
[Chris](http://www.simplegeek.com/),
[Dare](http://www.kuro5hin.org/user/Carnage4Life/diary) and
[Don](http://www.gotdotnet.com/team/dbox/) and the work they’ve been
[doing](http://www.simplegeek.com/PermaLink.aspx/7b48b6ab-d51f-447c-87bb-b02010e171af)
in
[blogspace](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/dnexxml/html/xml02172003.asp),
but don’t quote any of them. They only quoted the guy with something
slightly negative to say.

In a way, this is to be expected. I mean, I’m following Rule \#1 of
[Robert Scoble’s](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/)
[Corporate Weblog
Manifesto](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2003/02/26.html): Tell The
Truth. And nobody reads a news letter like Microsoft-Watch to only hear
how great things are going for Microsoft. I shouldn’t be surprised that
they quoted me. (I am, however, surprised at the turnaround performance
– I only posted the entry about 24 hours before it ended up in the
newsletter.) And certainly, if I’m going to keep a blog like this, the
press should be allowed to quote from it. However, I feel that should
have received a heads up email to let me know I was being quoted out of
context with the rest of the blog-thread in a newsletter that people pay
for. Unlike many of the other MSFT bloggers, I work in the field
directly with customers every day. I’m sure I’ve got a customer or two
who will see this. If my friend hadn’t clued me in, I might have been in
for a nasty surprise when I return from Infant Care Leave this coming
week.
