My pal [Tim](http://blogs.msdn.com/timmall) dropped me an email last
week to let me know they (the ADO.NET team) were publishing their [vNext
vision around
entities](http://blogs.msdn.com/dataaccess/archive/2006/06/20/638378.aspx).
Of course, they picked the week when I’m in San Diego! So I didn’t get a
chance to look at it until today. In a nutshell, they are raising the
level of abstraction for databases. Regular DevHawk readers know I talk
about [abstraction](http://devhawk.net/SearchView.aspx?q=abstraction) a
lot around here. In fact, one of my earliest posts on this blog – 1
house, 2 kids and 5 jobs ago – was on [Disruptive Programming Language
Technologies](http://devhawk.net/2003/01/17/disruptive-programming-language-technologies/).
So this is a topic near and dear to my heart.

This is an amazingly good thing. Think of the impact VB had on the
development industry, but bigger. The abstraction level of databases
hasn’t been raised in decades. It’s about freaking time we did.

My only problem with the article is that it’s pretty obtuse. Referring
to this as “Making the Conceptual Level Real” makes it sound much less
exciting than it really is. Nobody refers to C\# as a “conceptual”
programming language. But if you use the terminology from the vision
article, that’s exactly what it is. Machine code is the physical level,
IL is the logical layer and C\# would then be the conceptual layer. But
lets say you build a compiler that compiles C\# directly to machine
code. Would it suddenly become the logical layer? Who knows? Who cares?
Let’s just raise the level of abstraction and not get all caught up
naming the level we’re currently at.

VB was introduced [15 years
ago](http://www.panopticoncentral.net/archive/2006/05/24/12200.aspx) in 1991. 
Most developers in the industry are aware and remember the impact
VB had (if you don’t, check out [Billy
Hollis](http://ftponline.com/weblogger/forum.aspx?id=18)‘ [History of
BASIC](http://dotnetmasters.com/historyofbasic.htm)). The relational
model was [introduced 36 years
ago](http://www.acm.org/classics/nov95/toc.html), The [first
RDBMS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multics_Relational_Data_Store) was
introduced in 28 years ago. I’d bet the majority of developers in the
industry today don’t remember a time before databases. Hell, I was
introduced 36 years old myself. (I’m sure my dad remembers programming
before databases, but he doesn’t code much these days.)

As I said, this is going to be big and it’s about freaking time. So hats
off to the [ADO.NET
team](http://blogs.msdn.com/dataaccess/default.aspx). Can’t wait to see
this running. [According to
this](http://forums.microsoft.com/MSDN/ShowPost.aspx?PostID=488135&SiteID=1),
first CTP drop is August, so you don’t even have to wait too long.
