In Febuary, [when I
said](http://devhawk.net/2008/02/11/morning-coffee-145/) “Romney’s a
real douche bag”, [several upset
commenters](http://devhawk.net/CommentView,guid,d88e8506-d669-41c3-a246-6da1865f9a2e.aspx#commentstart)
vowed never to read my blog again. I was even called a bigot (though
[Dale](http://halfmybrain.spaces.live.com/) jumped in and explained how
wrong a charge that is). Frankly, anytime I run a political post,
especially ones where I call prominent Republicans names, that’s the
reaction I expect.

So it kinda surprised me that the
[response](http://devhawk.net/CommentView,guid,be8c3c37-012b-499f-a1d2-1db86c5771b5.aspx#commentstart)
to [calling McCain a dick and his campaign an
embarrassment](http://devhawk.net/2008/08/01/mccains-dick-move-of-the-week/)
was so tepid. No outrage. No promises to unsubscribe nor predictions
that others would do likewise. Dale sounds like he agrees that McCain’s
campaign is an embarrassment, even though he clearly supports McCain.
RandyG doesn’t have anything to say about McCain one way or the other,
but he thinks Obama is a “pompous dick”. Only BigJ provides any defense
of McCain at all, but it’s an extremely weak defense. He described
McCain as “not afraid to tick off a powerful, influential, big money
contributor”, which I would expect is hard to say out loud with a
straight face. Given that McCain [has raked in millions in contributions
from the oil
industry](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/26/AR2008072601891_pf.html)
after flip-flopping on offshore drilling, describing the Hilton’s
\$4,600 contribution as “powerful, influential, big money” is laughable.
Hell, McCain is returning [ten times that
amount](http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/08/07/mccain-campaign-is-reviewing-donations/)
in “unusual” (read: possibly illegal) contributions because they “just
didn’t sound right”.

I figure there are two main possible reasons for the lack of outrage:

-   All my readers who are willing to unsubscribe because I don’t agree
    with their political view have already left, leaving only those who
    agree with or simply ignore my political posts.
-   The number of people willing to stand up and defend McCain, even
    anonymously in my small corner of the Internet, is very small.

Personally, I probably a little of both, but I’m guessing it’s more the
latter than the former.
