This week is Strategic Architect Forum IV where we are bring over 200
top strategic architects from around the world to Redmond for a series
of presentations and breakout discussions. [Norman
Judah](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/exec/judah), CTO of MSFT
Services, is doing the opening keynote. Other keynote speakers include
[Pat Helland](http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland), Software Factories’
authors [Keith Short](http://blogs.msdn.com/Keith_Short/) and Jack
Greenfield, plus a Q&A session with
[BillG](http://www.microsoft.com/billgates). Last year, we recorded all
the sessions and published them as [The Architecture Strategy
Series](http://www.msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series/).
We’re still working out the specifics for this year’s content, but we
will be publishing this year’s sessions as soon as we can.

One of the things that’s interesting about SAF is that we do a small
number of traditional presentation sessions and a large number of
discussion breakouts. For these discussion breakouts, we get around
fifteen to twenty architects in a room to discuss a problem. For
example, I’m doing a talk discussion breakout tomorrow on Refactoring
Your Best Practices. Each breakout also has a moderator and a note taker
– the goal being to record the knowledge and to track a list of action
items.

In addition to SAF, we have two ancillary events going on. All of our
field architect evangelists are in town with their customers, so the
past two days we had training for them. I had to speak Sunday morning
about our influential and community programs. We also have most of our
Architecture Advisory Board in town for SAF and their twice-yearly
face-to-face meeting. This is the first face-to-face meeting of MAAB
since I took over the program, so I’m looking forward to meeting these
folks in person. 
