My pal Chris [started a blog](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/) over the
weekend - I’ve been [bugging
him](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/welcome.html) to do so for
quite a while. I’ve know Chris for several years – he used to be an
officer in a company that I helped migrate over to .NET. The company got
sold, but Chris hasn’t blogged what he does now so I’m not going to
spoil the surprise (hint – he did blog about [automatic external
defibrillators](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/all-i-want-for-christmas-is.html)).

So far, Chris is doing a lot of ranting – his [favorite pub in
Edmonton](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/i-miss-obyrnes-pub.html)
(which I’ve been to), [Amazon
Theater](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/amazon-amazing.html),
and [reselling livestrong
bracelets](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/tis-season-for-ripoff.html).
Personally, I think it’s funny that [Chris can
build](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/little-good-karma-anyone.html)
a [wearyellow livestrong
flair](http://photos1.blogger.com/img/115/2519/200/5.jpg) for his blog
template, but [he hasn’t
built](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/2004/12/syndication.html) an
XML flair that points to his [syndication
feed](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/atom.xml).

Chop busting aside, I’m glad to see Chris posting. When I first met
Chris, I was transitioning from consultant to technical sales, and I’ve
learned a bunch from Chris about how business works that has come in
very handy now that I work with architects. Chris, can’t wait to see
more from you. But when are you coming to Seattle for a visit?
