Christmas was spent with just my local family – me,
[Julie](http://techiewife.com/), Patrick and Julie’s mom Patty (who
lives ten minutes away). New Year’s was spent with Julie’s side of the
family – three of Patty’s four children and all six of her grandkids are
at Brother Jim’s in Santa Barbara. Even Julie’s dad drove up, making it
the first time this much of her family was together since Julie and I
got married 4 1/2 years ago.

However, it’s hard to be happy without feeling for the people who’s
family and friends were devastated by last week’s tsunami. I’ve got a
few friends in the area – I’ve done TechEd Malaysia twice and have been
working closely with the Indian MSFT office of late. I’ve heard from I
think everyone I know in the region and luckily they’re all OK (though
one had a close call). Of course, there are countless others who were
not so lucky and my heart goes out to them. I wish I had more to say,
but given the scale and scope of this tragedy, mere words seem almost
trite.

I don’t make resolutions anymore, since they are pretty much the same
every year (more time with family, lose weight, smarter with money,
etc.) I make a little progress on each every year – enough to be
somewhat proud of but not enough that I can quit working on it. I’ve
been reading [Dee Hock’s](http://www.chaordic.org/who_hock2.html)[Birth
of the Chaordic Age](http://www.amazon.com/o/ASIN/1576750744) which my
[Dad](http://halpierson.blogspot.com/) lent me at thanksgiving and I’m
really enjoying it. I’ve marked down several passages, but this one
seems most appropriate for the new year:

> “Riches are not in the number of possessions, but the fewness of
> wants.”

By that measure, I know few richer than myself.
