[Tanya](http://spaces.msn.com/members/wabi-sabi/) pointed out the other
day that having a DVR causes you to watch a lot more TV. Case in point:
[24](http://www.fox.com/24/). I missed the first three seasons. I never
knew when it was on and once you miss a single episode, you’re kinda
done. Now that I have a
[DVR](http://www.microsoft.com/tv/content/Solutions/Foundation/MSTV_Foundation_Main.mspx),
I’ve haven’t missed any of season four. Furthermore, the first three
seasons are available on DVD, so not only am I watching more TV from
this season, I’m catching up on previous seasons. We just finished
season one tonight.

[Note - there are some first season spoilers here - not big ones, but
some nonetheless]

First off, there is alot of filler – at least in season one. There are
long sequences (the girls escaping from the kidnappers leaps to mind)
where there’s all this action and suspense, but everything ends up back
where they started. Secondly, by the end I thought it was over the top
on the amount of resources the bad guys had. I mean, they kidnap his
daughter *again*? Maybe it bothered me more because I watched the whole
season over a couple of weeks, instead of several months. Finally, the
story flow really feels off – but that’s the nature of the real-time
format. In a more typical series, there’s a slow build towards a final
confrontation with a collection of connected yet distinct stories.
But 24 is like a single 24 hour long movie, except that it doesn’t have
a clearly defined 3 act structure. It kust puts the pedal to the metal
at around episode four and doesn’t let up. That’s not as exciting as it
sounds – stuff just happens…and keeps happening. There’s no time for
reflection or anticipation which makes it much more difficult to enjoy
the story.

I realize part of the show’s gimick is that it’s a full 24 hours. But
really, I think the story – at least season one’s story – would have
been better told in 14-18 hours. Of course, that won’t stop me from
watching the current season or starting in on season two.
