Last fall, I was presenting to a group of architects about SOA. The
previous speaker – [Rich Turner](http://blogs.msdn.com/richardt/) – was
running way late. As I walked in, he was doing a WCF demo and wanted to
show how easy it was to change transport by changing the config file. He
wanted to change it to run over named pipes, but he couldn’t remember
the name of the binding. He asked me, and I confessed that I didn’t know
either. So he gave up on demoing named pipes, finished his presentation
and went on his way.

After he left, I confessed to the assembled architects that I
knew \*nothing\* about WCF beyond the high-level concepts. I hadn’t
spent any time working with it at all. In fact, the only reason I had it
installed was because it got installed automatically when you installed
WPF which I was working with at the time. My reasoning, as I explained
to them, was that WCF is a low-level abstraction. That is to say, WCF is
nearer the bottom of the [.NET Abstraction
Pile](http://biztech.ericsink.com/Abstraction_Pile.html) than the top. I
figured I’d let the people building the next generation of
service-oriented infrastructure to worry about WCF.

Fast forward eight months, and my new job is about building
service-oriented infrastructure. You know, the type that builds on WCF.
Maybe it’s karma, but I’m having to learn a lot about WCF right quick.

So as I get back into the blogging saddle, expect to see a bunch of
stuff about WCF.

BTW, Major thanks to [Sam
Gentile](http://codebetter.com/blogs/sam.gentile/), who’s taken the time
on email and the phone (on his vacation no less) to help talk some
things thru. He suggested the [WCF Hands
On](http://www.samspublishing.com/bookstore/product.asp?isbn=0672328771&rl=1)
book, which is pretty good.
