So I’m playing around with podcasting. The new version of
[dasBlog](http://sourceforge.net/projects/dasblogce) supports RSS
enclosures for local binaries and I’m thinking of adding support for
remote binaries. (I’m not sure my friend who hosts this blog for me
would appreciate the bandwidth spike from adding downloads of media
files. Of course, that assumes people would listen). So far, I’m just
listening. My friend [Mike](http://blogs.msdn.com/mglehman/) does his
[Manic Minute](http://radio.weblogs.com/0141212/) and I guess [Daily
Source Code](http://www.curry.com/) is the defacto standard podcast.
This will be easier when I get my new AUX input installed in my car.

Listening to 30 minute podcasts like DSC on my Nomad have me longing for
WMP’s [variable
speed](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/knowledgecenter/howto/PlayFaster_how_to.aspx)
feature. I listen to podcasts primarily on my Nomad – the combination of
[WMP
10](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/mp10/default.aspx) AutoSync,
[Doppler Radio](http://www.dopplerradio.net) and Sean’s [podcast
playlists](http://blog.seanalexander.com/PermaLink,guid,88b882ce-dcad-4311-af2d-15732ba01292.aspx) makes syncing down
to my player effortless. But listening to Adam Curry ramble on about
[podcast commercialization](http://www.curry.com/2005/02/22#a2852) for
45 minutes doesn’t fit into my communte. However, listening to Adam
Curry sped up 1.4x would make a 45 minute show end in just over 30
minutes. But alas, the Nomad doesn’t have that feature. Does any player
support that? Or does it take more proccessing power than these things
are carrying around?

Note to [MSTV
Foundation](http://www.microsoft.com/tv/content/Solutions/Foundation/MSTV_Foundation_Main.mspx)
team – variable speed support would also be a great feature for the DVR.
I wouldn’t watch 24 sped up, but I might watch the Daily Show that way.

UPDATE – I neglected to “give props” to [my boss
Norman](http://atlasbrandview.blogspot.com/) for convincing me to look
at this whole podcasting thing in the first place. Given how little
spare time I have these days, I’m not sure that I needed yet another
hobby. On the other hand, not following your boss’s suggestions or
giving him props is never good for the career!
:smile:

