About fourteen months ago, David Trowbridge of [patterns &
practices](http://www.microsoft.com/resources/practices/default.mspx)
introduced me to a guy working in their testing group named Larry
Brader. David is one of the primary authors of p&p’s [Enterprise
Solution
Patterns](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/patterns/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnpatterns/html/esp.asp)
and [Integration
Patterns](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/patterns/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnpag/html/intpatt.asp)
books. I wanted to talk to David about building a pattern repository and
he handed me off to Larry. Little did I know that Larry is an
information theorist and was one of the key authors of [Testing Software
Patterns](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/patterns/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnpag/html/tsp.asp).
Frankly, when Larry gets rolling on info theory, I only understood a
fraction of what he’s saying. But the parts I do understand about how
patterns relate to each other blows my mind.

Then p&p hired this guy…what’s his name?…Oh yeah, Ward Cunningham. I
hear he knows a bit about pattern repositories.
:smile:

Anyway, around this time last year I was having regular meetings with
Larry and Ward to talk about this repository stuff. Then stuff got crazy
on my end – primarily being the [acting marketing
director](http://devhawk.net/2005/01/29/atlas-brand-view-wabi-sabi-and-devhawk/) for
my team as well as the ARC track owner for last years TechEd. The
regular meetings became more irregular and then stopped altogether. That
is to say, my involvement stopped – Ward, Larry et.al. kept forging
ahead. I heard about how things were going from time to time, but that
was the extent of my involvement.

Last summer, Larry, Ward and David (plus others I’ve never met)
published an article called [Describing the Enterprise Architectural
Space](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/patterns/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnpag/html/entarch.asp).
(They also did a
[webcast](http://msevents.microsoft.com/CUI/WebCastEventDetails.aspx?EventID=1032267019&EventCategory=5&culture=en-US&CountryCode=US) on
the topic.) In it, they laid out a way of thinking about how patterns
relate to each other and they introduced the [Enterprise Architectural
Space Organizing
Table](http://download.microsoft.com/download/0/C/4/0C44F7EB-893F-4048-B2C6-C1C889E06DF1/MOAG_F02.pdf) (EASOT
for short). That was just the first step.
[PatternShare](http://patternshare.org/) is next one.

PatternShare is a community site that brings together the patterns from
popular authors –
[Fowler](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.MF.HomePage),
[Evans](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.DDD.HomePage), [Hohpe
&
Wolfe](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.HW.HomePage), [GoF](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.GOF.HomePage),
[POSA](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.POSA.HomePage) and
[p&p](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.PP.HomePage) - into a
single repository. Furthermore, it provides a [dynamically generated
EASOT](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.EnterpriseArchitecturalSpaceOrganizingTable)
showing all the patterns in the repository and how they relate to each
other. Finally, it provides a way to [add new
patterns](http://patternshare.org/default.aspx/Home.Community.AddANewPattern)
to the repository so that they show up in the EASOT.

Major congrats to Ward, Larry, David and the rest of the p&p folks for
pulling this off. I can’t wait to see where the site goes from here.

