Like the rest of the known universe, I recently read [The Da Vinci
Code](http://www.danbrown.com/novels/davinci_code/) by [Dan
Brown](http://www.danbrown.com/meet_dan/index.html). I had read [Angels
& Demons](http://www.danbrown.com/novels/angels_demons) on a plane trip
back from Alaska when my laptop battery had died. A&D was good, esp.
considering the low bar of killing several hours flying back from
Anchorage. I tried to read [Digital
Fortress](http://www.danbrown.com/novels/digital_fortress) but just
couldn’t stand it. I liked the crypto part of it, but the characters
were blown so out of proportion that I just could never get into it.
Also, who starts a thriller with that much backstory? So I approached Da
Vinci Code with some trepidation, but also hope.

Of course, it hooked me instantly and before I knew it I was 100 pages
in. This was much much better than Fortress or A&D. In addition to the
great plot and characters, this book does an amazing job of obfuscating
the line between reality and fiction. While I don’t believe the events
actually occurred or that Robert Langdon exists, the background history
of Da Vinci, the Holy Grail, Christianity and the incorporation of pagan
traditions was fascinating. Given the success of Passion of the Christ –
by all accounts a hyper-literal interpretation of the Bible – I think
it’s interesting that the equally-successful Da Vinci Code essentially
refutes that the Bible is *THE* word of God. Of course, the Da Vinci
Code is a novel so I’m not really sure where the facts ends and the
fiction begins. I haven’t read a book that blurred that line so well
since [Jurassic Park](http://www.crichton-official.com/jp/index.html).

Unfortunately, while Dan Brown may be a brilliant researcher and
steadily improving as a writer, it all comes apart in the end. The true
identity of the Da Vinci Code’s primary nemesis left me (and
subsequently my wife) very disappointed. I kept wondering how he was
going to pull it all together in the end. For all the finely detailed
logic and history of this story, it felt to me as if the author
essentially picked the least likely character to be the bad guy for the
sole purpose of minimizing the chances the reader would guess it. It’s
fine to be surprised at the end, but it’s got to make some sense. What’s
the point of building to a climax only to pull it out of your ass when
you get there?
