Yesterday was another day of talking primarily to people I know, inside
and outside of Microsoft. Got into a long conversation with [Gareth
Jones](http://blogs.msdn.com/garethj) and [Peter
Provost](http://www.peterprovost.org/) about combining test-driven and
model-driven development. Having done evangelism for five of the last
six years, I haven’t been an agile practitioner. I’m getting to the
point where I feel dirty when I don’t write tests or don’t check in,
but not dirty enough to actually do anything about it (yet). But
practicing or not, it was fascinating to hear Gareth and
Peter brainstorm on this topic.

Speaking of storms, we had a downpour here yesterday. Thunderstorm moved
right over the convention center – you could tell by how loud the
thunder and rain were. I hit a seam in the storm heading back to my
hotel, but I did get drenched heading to the [influencer
party](http://blogs.msdn.com/trika/archive/2007/05/01/mcp-posse-rolls-deep-influencer-party-at-teched.aspx)
@ [Margaritaville](http://www.margaritavilleorlando.com/). The party was
fun, after I dried off, though I seem to remember knowing more of the
influencers last time I was @ TechEd. Ended up sharing a cab back to the
hotel with [Ted Neward](http://blogs.tedneward.com/) and [Mark
Miller](http://www.doitwith.net/). Ted’s like the IT Industry’s
Switzerland, so I took the opportunity to pick his brain on the goings
on in other communities – primarily the Ruby community.

I did get a chance to hack a little code yesterday. As a side effect of
my interest in programming language design, I’m also interested in
[parser development](http://devhawk.net/2006/08/15/modular-compilers/). Towards
that end, I’ve been learning about [Parsing Expression
Grammars](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~baford/packrat/). The [original PEG
parser](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~baford/packrat/thesis/) was built in
Haskell, but I decided to write mine in F\#. Even though I had never
worked in F\# before, I got my parser up and running fairly easily the
first time. I did hit one syntax snag that [Don
Syme](http://blogs.msdn.com/dsyme) helped me with. I’ll blog this more
in detail later, but I ported a [simple arithmetic grammar packrat
parser](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~baford/packrat/icfp02/ArithPackrat.hs)
written in 120 lines of Haskell to about 90 lines of F\#. Not bad for a
first timer. (Don got it down to 25 lines, using F\#’s new [Active
Patterns
feature](http://blogs.msdn.com/dsyme/archive/2007/04/07/draft-paper-on-f-active-patterns.aspx).)

I gearing up for my second talk, which happens right after lunch. I
recorded a [Virtual TechEd](http://www.virtualteched.com) session this
morning with the help of my friend [Jon
Flanders](http://www.masteringbiztalk.com/blogs/jon). It’s an 8 minute
overview of the Rome project, so it is VERY high level. But anything
that helps get the word out I see as a good thing, right?
