![](http://s3.amazonaws.com/devhawk_images/WindowsLiveWriter/0995b2a57c40_9C5C/xboxlogo[12].gif)
Last night, after his sister had gone to bed, my three year old son
Patrick and I spent some time playing on “daddy’s Xbox”. He wants
[Cars](http://www.xbox.com/games/carsxbox360) and [Viva
Pinata](http://www.xbox.com/games/vivapinata) for Christmas, but I fired
up the [Sonic the
Hedgehog](http://www.xbox.com/games/sonicthehedgehog)[demo](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/live/marketplace/sonicthehedgehog/demo.htm)
and handed him the controller. He’s only three, so he would basically
run around in a circle and jump until he fell off the very tall tower
the demo starts on. He enjoyed it, but he was also a little discouraged
because he wasn’t very good at the game.

![](http://s3.amazonaws.com/devhawk_images/WindowsLiveWriter/0995b2a57c40_9C5C/vivapinatalogo[5].gif)
That got me thinking about what kind of games would be good for
him. He’s not that good with the controller yet, so fighting bad guys or
navigating a ledge on a tall tower are not great bets. Likewise, three
year olds aren’t that good at focusing on a specific goal like “pick up
all the rings” but would rather just explore the world. Viva Pinata
sounds like it’s right on target for Patrick (plus, he likes the TV
show). But what other games really fit the bill? Not many. Patrick loves
Cars – he wants to be [Lightning
McQueen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightning_McQueen) so bad – but
I’m not sure he’s going to be any good at the game.

![](http://s3.amazonaws.com/devhawk_images/WindowsLiveWriter/0995b2a57c40_9C5C/XnaLogo[11].gif)I
wonder if there’s much of a market for pre-school console games?
Probably not at the \$50-60 price point, but as a \$5 or \$10 Xbox Live
Arcade game? Maybe so. I’ve played around with [XNA Game
Studio](http://msdn.microsoft.com/directx/XNA/default.aspx), but I
haven’t really been inspired to build anything. Maybe I’ve been looking
in the wrong place for inspiration!

Update: My father had a great suggestion. Patrick loves [Handy
Manny](http://disney.go.com/disneychannel/playhouse/handymanny/index.html)
and [Bob the Builder](http://www.bobthebuilder.com), so how about some
type of Mr. Fix It game where you can go around building and repairing
stuff. Sort of Grand Theft Auto with tools, but for three year olds.
