 Last December, Arvindra Sehmi of Microsoft EMEA (Europe, Middle East
and Africa) created JOURNAL – the Microsoft’s Architects JOURNAL – to
great success. Now, with the publication of JOURNAL 2, we have launched
[JOURNAL’s new
homepage](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal/) on the [MSDN
Architecture Center](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/). You can
read the articles online in the MSDN library or download the full issues
as PDFs. (To anyone who previously downloaded the JOURNAL 1 PDF, we’ve
reformatted the PDF so that it will print on A4 or US Letter sized paper
without having to shrink it to the point of near-unreadability.)

BTW, you do have to fill out a profile questionnaire to get access to
the PDF’s. And since we want to encourage people to fill out the profile
questionnaire, we’ve only published one article from JOURNAL 2 on MSDN
so far. We’ll publish one of the remaining articles on MSDN every couple
of weeks. However, to whet your appetite, the article we choose to
publish is the cornerstone of JOURNAL 2 – [Pat Helland’s
Metropolis](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnmaj/html/aj2metrop.asp).
It’s based from Pat’s [Architecture Strategy
Series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series)
presentation of the same title, where he drawn a parallel between the
evolution of cities and the evolution of information technology shops.
It’s a very powerful analogy for understanding that we’re at the very
beginning of the Information Revolution and that we have a long long way
to go.

Please [drop me a
line](mailto:hpierson@microsoft.com?subject=Microsoft's%20Architects%20JOURNAL)
or leave a comment with your thoughts on JOURNAL. It’s a quarterly
publication, so look for JOURNAL 3 in July. In the meantime, we’re
always looking for authors, so [let me
know](mailto:hpierson@microsoft.com?subject=I%20want%20to%20write%20for%20JOURNAL!)
if you have an idea for an article.
