A week ago, I [wrote](http://devhawk.net/2007/11/26/Fans4Writers.aspx)
that the ongoing writers strike might accelerate the transition to Media
2.0. Several other folks think the same way and explain why much better
than I have. Marc Andreessen (aka [creator of
Mosaic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marc_Andreessen)) has a [fantastic
post](http://blog.pmarca.com/2007/11/rebuilding-holl.html) that not only
explains this transition better than I can, it also helped me understand
my views on unions in general.

In the post, he describes two economic models – the Hollywood model and
the Silicon Valley model. The Hollywood model is highly-centralized,
with a small number of huge companies (aka “big media”) owning
practically everything. In contrast, the Silicon Valley model is
highly-decentralized, where pretty much anyone can create a company or
bring a product to market. Marc believes that the entertainment industry
at large is transitioning to the decentralized model. I agree 110% – the
general decentralization trend is one I highlight in my “Moving Beyond
Industrial Software” presentation that I’ve been delivering recently.

Unions are a response to the dramatic power differential between an
employer and individual employees. By pooling (aka centralizing) their
bargaining power, the union provides a counter-balance to the power
wielded by the employer(s). But in a decentralized model, unions aren’t
really necessary. Marc describes the “alignment of interests between
creators and financiers” as “near-perfect”. Near-perfect might be a bit
on the rosy side, but it’s a model I’m much more comfortable with than
mega-corporations & unions.

Some believe that the AMPTP (aka the studios) is trying to [break the
entertainment
unions](http://unitedhollywood.blogspot.com/2007/12/amptp-union-busting-is-our-middle-name.html).
But what if those unions decided to break the studios? I gotta think
that while there are lots of quality writers out there, the best in the
business are members of the writers guild. What if they just decided to
stop writing for the studios and go into business for themselves?
Patrick Goldstein of the LA Times [wonders the exact same
thing](http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/news/movies/la-et-gold20nov20,0,372891.story?coll=la-home-entertainment).
