A while back, my good friend and MAAB cohort [Loren
Goodman](http://www.inrule.com/company/team-lg.aspx) sent me the
following. I was *hoping* he’d start his own blog and post it (and other
stuff) there. But he’s busy working on other things these days, so I
doubt he’ll get to the whole blogging thing anytime soon. So I offered
to post it here rather than have it sit gathering virtual dust. Enjoy.

**Update**: I got the timeline wrong. Loren sent me this and I offered to
post it. He didn’t ask me to post it originally as I originally wrote.
Sorry about that, Loren.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### The F5 High

#### Hunting and farming in the next generation of software development

A little while ago I was having an intense discussion with a colleague
of mine Scott Colestock while we were both out at Microsoft.  We were
discussing the ever present need some developers have to build things
themselves instead of looking for something to leverage or using an off
the shelf product.  After we were postulating a couple of off the wall,
overly judgmental and holier than thou theories behind this phenomenon,
Scott said something that really hit home and opened my eyes to an
interesting explanation of what might really be going on.  He
offhandedly said maybe it is not about ego or fear of less than adequate
solutions at all; maybe it is actually bout the F5 high instead.  The F5
high… hmmm have not heard of that one.  What is the F5 high I asked
him?  The F5 high, you know, that feeling you get when you hit F5 in the
development environment and something happens.  Come on, admit it, It
feels good.  As I took in the idea, I realized that he was totally
right, it does feel good, it is a sense of accomplishment, it is an
ultra quick hit, and more importantly, it makes us want to do it again. 
This simple button and the rote process wrapped around it is a gateway
to experiencing indisputable proof of our own creativity.  So to some
extent, we are able to become our own dealer, dolling out small packets
of that near harmless drug called satisfaction whenever we want.    So
after this grand near religious realization of our true essence and this
new found understanding behind that very special little key, we moved
back on topic and continued our discussion about architecture.

Later on I was replaying the discussion between Scott and I with another
colleague of mine, Jon Tobey.  Jon is one of the most avid fisherman I
know.  Right in the middle of my F5 story, just when I thought mans
greatest revelation had been already been achieved, if you can even
imaging anything greater, he proceeded to add yet another improvement to
the growing theory.  He took the F5 high concept and explained it in the
context of fishing.  As a sportsman, fishing is about the hunt, it is
about the building feeling you get when there is a bite and the
exhilaration that courses through your veins as you attempt to catch and
reel in the unknown trophy on the other end of you line.  In the case of
fishing, we don’t even keep the fish, we throw it back for reuse. 
Considering that we return the fish to the pond or stream from which we
caught it, fishing is clearly much more about the rewards of the process
and not about the value proposition of the actual fish.

If we approached fishing trips like software projects there would be
some very strange consequences.  Firstly, we would have to keep
everything we caught – even if it is not a fish and even if we did not
catch it.   Then we would bring them back to office and try and probably
have to cram them though the little slots on the sharepoint server or
something.  Reusing fish would be dramatically less fulfilling, we would
just take the dead fish, somehow work a hook into its mouth, throw it
across the floor, and then yank the rod with excitement on a par with a
kid on the traveling carnival merry go round.  Then drag the lifeless
fish corpse across the floor by reeling it in until it reached the end
of our rod.  Take it off and throw it back across the floor, repeat. 
Man, that sounds exciting doesn’t it?  So where does that leave us? 
Right now we have a very smelly server closet and a bunch of drug crazed
developers yanking dead fish around the office hoping to somehow score
an F5 fix while wondering when fish serialization technology will reach
the point where the rehydrated fish are slightly more exciting.  They
are all very excited about the new social network called FishTank 2.0
where anyone can reel in anyone else’s dead fish.  This does not look
good – I must need a quick hit of F5 – {F5} – crap, well not so
exciting, it turns out that F5 in word fires up the find and replace box
and I remain unfulfilled.

So it appears that good developers, aka hunters, need to do some fishing
every once in a while to keep the monotony of eating fish every day in
check.  For when this get too far out of balance, the devs usually start
using the project managers as the fish and the requirements of the
project as the river.  They bait the project managers and try to yank
them off the page and into something new, something that will give them
that F5 fix they so desperately need.  When the PMs tell them NO, they
might go to the users, a different company, who knows?
