::: image-right
[![Ovechkin Celebrates the Capitals' First Goal in Game 5](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/20110425-0003-playing-with-the-lead/OviCelebratesGoal-300x200.jpg "Ovechkin Celebrates the Capitals' First Goal in Game 5")](http://www.nhl.com/ice/recap.htm?id=2010030115)
:::

Obviously, the [Capitals win
Saturday](http://www.nhl.com/ice/recap.htm?id=2010030115) was huge. It
put them through to the second round for only the second time since
their trip to the Stanley Cup Finals in 1998. It was also the first
playoff series in the Ovechkin/Boudreau era to be settled without having
to go the full seven games. The Capitals have played four seven-game
playoff series in the past three years. It’ll be nice for the Caps to
have the extra time off to rest and heal for a change.

As we wait to see who the Capitals will face in the Conference
Semifinals, I want to highlight what I think is a huge change from
series from the past three years: The Capitals went 3-1 against the
Rangers when they held the series lead. Over the four series in
2008-2010, the Capitals went 2-5 in games where they held the series
lead. That’s pretty bad. It gets even worse when you realize that both
of those wins came early in their respective series. The Caps won game
\#2 against the Penguins in ’09 to take a 2-0 series lead. Last year,
they won game \#3 against the Canadiens to take a 3-1 series lead. In
both of those series, the Capitals proceeded to lose the next three
games. They eventually lost both series.

So when the Caps [lost game
3](http://www.nhl.com/ice/recap.htm?id=2010030113) and we’re down 3-0 at
the start of the 3rd period [in game
4](http://www.nhl.com/ice/recap.htm?id=2010030114), it certainly seemed
as if the Capitals we’re going to choke away another series lead like
they had the past two years. Instead, they came out for the third period
and played like their backs were against the wall. And while the
Capitals’ have sucked at defending a series lead, they have played very
well well when facing elimination – 6-3 to be exact in the past three
years.

If the [new-and-improved
Caps](http://www.usatoday.com/sports/hockey/nhl/capitals/2011-04-19-alex-ovechkin-capitals-playoffs_N.htm)
can combine their traditional talent of playing from behind in the
series with the ability to ~~drive nails into coffins~~ win games when
they have the series lead, the Capitals will be a very hard team to beat
this year.
