Ask [Sara](http://blogs.msdn.com/SaraFord/), I have been bugging her for
a LONG time for [this CodePlex
feature](http://blogs.msdn.com/codeplex/archive/2009/08/14/donate-ad-revenue-to-charity-and-new-editor-role.aspx).
Actually, my team has been bugging her team for longer than either of us
have been in these jobs.

Last week’s CodePlex release includes a feature known as “Editor Role”.
If you look at the [Project Role
Matrix](http://ironpython.codeplex.com/People/ProjectRoles.aspx), you’ll
notice two primary differences from what the standard logged-in user can
do: they can create/edit wiki pages and they *can’t* rate releases.
Developers and Coordinators can’t rate releases either – I guess the
idea is that they don’t want members of the team rating their own
releases (5 Stars! Again! Wow, we’re awesome!).

Until now, the only way to give members of the community the ability to
edit the wiki also gave permission to edit work items, check in source
code and make releases. We’re still working on getting Microsoft at
large to understand the [benefits of community collaboration aspect in
open
source](http://devhawk.net/2009/06/03/strengthening-the-microsoft-ecosystem-with-source-code/),
but in the meantime we just can’t give those permissions to people off
the team. However, we would love to have contributions to our
documentation wiki. [^1] With the new Editor Role, we’ll be able to grant
wiki editor access without any of the other permissions.

Of course, the whole idea of “wiki permissions” kinda flies in the face
of the basic [wiki design
principles](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WikiDesignPrinciples). So we’re going
to be pretty liberal about handing out editor permissions. If you’re
interested in editing the wiki, [drop me a
line](mailto:harry.pierson@microsoft.com?subject=IronPython%20Wiki%20Editor%20Role)
and I’ll get you hooked up. 

Big mega-thanks to the CodePlex team for making this feature happen. I
guess I’ll have to find something new to bug Sara about!

[^1]: You can tell we’re a real open source project because we’re begging
for documentation help!
