Tanya, my cohort on the Architecture Strategy Marketing team, has
finally – after much promising and subsequent delays – starter [her
blog](http://spaces.msn.com/members/wabi-sabi/). So far, just she’s just
written a [hello world
post](http://spaces.msn.com/members/wabi-sabi/Blog/cns!1pr7xQL7OitNcPJpkPBJltuA!105.entry)
where she explains why she named her blog “Wabi-Sabi”.

Of course, long time readers are probably wondering: “Did he just say
‘Marketing team’?”

Yes. Yes I did.

About two weeks ago, I was re-orged to be reporting to
[Norman](http://atlasbrandview.blogspot.com/). While you might expect me
to be displeased about this, I’m really ok with it. First off, I was
acting as the marketing director for about six months, so the fact that
we now have three people doing marketing instead of just me is a huge
bonus. Secondly, while I was acting as the marketing director (badly I
might add) I was in total firefighting mode – no opportunity to do
advance planning whatsoever. Now, I have the opportunity to focus on
doing a great job on a few things well (like the [TechEd Architecture
track](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=ceed2cfc-c011-4f39-aa2b-d98f3bfa9be6))
rather than doing just enough to keep a ton of things from completely
falling apart. It’s taken a while to shift gears, but now I spend more
time doing and less time running around like a chicken with my head cut
off.

Finally, my move to the marketing team is inherently temporary. Yeah,
it’s fun while it lasts and I’m learning a ton, but don’t think this is
a long term career change. Before it even happened, Adam (head of
Architecture Strategy) explained that he expects me to be over on the
architecture side of the house “soon”. Norman and I have already started
planning that transition.

So get your “[marketing
slime](http://weblogs.asp.net/kpleas/archive/2004/12/15/316136.aspx)”
digs in while you can! (Apparently, we marketing slime prefer the term
“marketing flacks”.)
