*(Editor’s note: almost every time I make a political post, some yahoo,
typically anonymously, suggests that I “*[*stick to
technology*](http://devhawk.net/CommentView,guid,e375ccf8-6a9f-4c99-8f21-3b108eacb1f6.aspx#commentstart)*”.
I will remind you, dear reader, that* [*This Is Not A Technical
Blog*](http://devhawk.net/2007/04/03/This+Is+Not+A+Technical+Blog.aspx)*.
If you don’t like my politics, you’re free to ignore the political posts
or simply unsubscribe from my blog altogether. Anonymous suggestions as
to what I should or should not be blogging about will be summarily
ignored.)*

Jules and I voted this morning, before work and school. Patrick helped
Julie vote and Riley helped me vote. I’m assuming regular readers don’t
need to be told [who I voted for](http://www.barackobama.com/). Riley
just wanted to help fill in the bubbles because it’s like coloring.
Patrick kinda got what was going on – check out [Jules’
post](http://techiewife.spaces.live.com/Blog/cns!3DAECC033B88329C!2911.entry)
about how they cast “our” vote.

For shits and giggles, I went back and looked at my posts [from two
years
ago](http://devhawk.net/2006/11/07/Certainly+Not+Politics+As+Usual.aspx).
It doesn’t make me Nostradamus, but I did guess we were going to have “a
very ugly race, especially from the Republicans” and that “the
nomination race will be worse” than the general election. If [Keith
Olbermann](http://countdown.msnbc.com) or [Rachel
Maddow](http://rachel.msnbc.com/) want to get in on this insightful
political analysis, they know where to reach me.
:smile:

I’ve been obsessed with three polling sites over the past few months:

-   [FiveThirtyEight.com](http://www.fivethirtyeight.com/) which is
    projecting 6.1 point popular vote / 159.2 electoral vote Obama
    victory
-   [Pollster.com](http://www.pollster.com/ "http://www.pollster.com/")
    which is projecting a [7.6
    point](http://www.pollster.com/polls/us/08-us-pres-ge-mvo.php?xml=/flashcharts/content/xml/08USPresGEMvO.xml&choices=Obama,McCain&phone=&ivr=&internet=&mail=&smoothing=&from_date=&to_date=&min_pct=&max_pct=&grid=&points=&trends=&lines=)
    PV / 149 EV Obama victory (with 105 toss-up EVs)
-   [Real Clear Politics](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/) is
    projecting a [7.5
    point](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2008/president/us/general_election_mccain_vs_obama-225.html)
    PV / [138
    EV](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/maps/obama_vs_mccain/?map=10)
    Obama victory

My wingnut libertarian friend (anyone from my kids’ playgroup who reads
this blog can guess who I’m talking about) thinks McCain will win with
“295-305” electoral votes. This election is far from being in the bag
for Obama, but the suggestion that McCain will come from six or seven
points down in the polls to win a 10-20 point bigger EV victory than
Bush did four years ago seems like crazy talk. As for me, I’m not
willing to make a firm prediction except to say that I think the polls
are wrong – I’m just not sure in what direction they’re wrong.

On the one hand, if the polls are underestimating Obama’s support by
excluding cell-phone only voters and Obama’s Get Out The Vote effort is
as strong as it looks, that could net Obama as much as five or six
points on top of the lead he’s already got and we’ll be looking at an
epic landslide with Obama maybe brushing up against 400 EV. For example,
Pollster.com’s 291 solid/lean Obama EV + 105 toss up EVs would be 396
total EVs for Obama.

On the other hand, if the polls are overestimating Obama’s support due
to the [Bradley Effect](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bradley_effect),
the undecideds break for decisively for McCain and Obama’s GOTV effort
doesn’t materialize, McCain’s might net those five or six points and
turn this into a toss-up squeaker decided by less than 35 EV (about the
size of Bush’s victory in 2004). For example, if McCain wins all of
Pollster.com’s tossups + the lean Obama states, it’s a scant 8 EV Obama
victory (273-265). If McCain could also pick off any of New Mexico,
Colorado, Iowa or Pennsylvania in that scenario, then he would win by
anywhere from 2-34 EVs.

Of course, those effects could cancel out and leave us where we are
right now, Obama with a six to seven point PV and low 100s EV victory.
Frankly, I’ll be happy to be wrong about the poll inaccuracy since that
would give Obama the presidency.

How do you think things are going to play out today?

