I asked Scoble for his thoughts on my [post about the term
mashup](http://devhawk.net/2005/11/22/I+Hate+The+Term+Mashup.aspx), and
he decided simply to [link to
it](http://scobleizer.wordpress.com/2005/11/22/the-non-gym-plan/). While
I appreciate the traffic, I’d appreciate opinions even more. Luckily, in
the same post he linked to [Sam Ramji](http://samus.typepad.com/what/)
writing about what he called “[enterprise
mashups](http://samus.typepad.com/what/2005/11/scoble_intervie.html)“.
Again, love the idea but hate the name mashup.

According to Sam, Scoble said:

> [W]hat’s to prevent mash-ups from being **the main way that
> departmental apps are built** in most enterprises 3-4 years from now?

Again, it depends on the definition of the term “mashup”. Are we’re
talking about browser component based apps that leverage what [Scoble
calls
ICC’s](http://scobleizer.wordpress.com/2005/11/07/what-do-you-call-things-like-flickr-microsoft-gadgets-google-maps-amazon-affiliate-parts/)?
If so, Scoble is only wrong about the timeframe. My team has a browser
based application leveraging [Virtual
Earth](http://virtualearth.msn.com/) running on our intranet server
*right now*.

Quick terminology sidebar: I use the term browser based application to
refer to these AJAX and mashup style apps, since they download code and
run in the browser itself. By comparison, I use the term web based
application for the more traditional browser apps that did all the
processing on the server and used the browser essentially as a dumb
terminal.

While I think these browser based applications will go mainstream in the
enterprise soon, there are a couple of things holding up adoption:
availability of tools and of the components themselves.

On the tools side, the AJAX programming model is just too difficult for
most programmers. Rudimentary debugging support, late bound script
languages, no compiler to help you find errors. Sounds like web
development circa 1997, doesn’t it? I’m hoping
[Atlas](http://atlas.asp.net/) will be to AJAX what ASP.NET was to ASP.

As for existing components, most of the ones [Scoble calls
out](http://scobleizer.wordpress.com/2005/11/07/what-do-you-call-things-like-flickr-microsoft-gadgets-google-maps-amazon-affiliate-parts/)
have little relevance to the enterprise. There’s little point to a
Feedmap or a Flickr bar in my enterprise app. And I’m not sure I even
want to go into the implications of serving up ads in an enterprise app.
That pretty much leaves mapping components like VE and Google Maps as
the only browser components of interest to the enterprise developer. So
far anyway.

I wonder if Scoble knows of any other enterprise relevant browser
components out there?
