I’m quoted in [Microsoft
Watch](http://www.microsoft-watch.com/article2/0,4248,1128705,00.asp),
[again](PermaLink.aspx?guid=5dbc986e-628a-4071-9bc5-b02e51497a1b). This
time it’s about my
[disclaimer](PermaLink.aspx?guid=7f8bdbae-4eb2-43de-ba52-513b7b5d3f0d).

I don’t quite get all the hullabaloo about a potential corporate
blogging policy. I meet with customers every day and usually I am privy
to information that I can’t share. My boss, the product groups and
Microsoft in general trusts my judgment about the handling of this
information, otherwise I wouldn’t have a job here. I’m sure there’s a
policy for what I should and shouldn’t say to a customer. This blog is
no different. I don’t talk about stuff I can’t talk about going on
inside the big house. I do offer my opinion on topics that interest me
such as web services, [programming language
innovation](PermaLink.aspx?guid=1e7d894f-0457-4a23-b85d-46aa48a8a2ce)
and the use of [XML vs.
Objects](PermaLink.aspx?guid=7d4b2a20-5cf8-423a-b71e-3f2a305f4ba8). Some
topics, such as [my
opinion](PermaLink.aspx?guid=3d584471-6872-4486-b680-6545cc477867) on
the recent deal between
[SourceGear](http://www.sourcegear.com/index.asp) and the [Mono
project](http://www.go-mono.com/), might be considered sensitive
subjects. I put the disclaimer in order to make sure there’s no mistake
about what is my opinion and what is “official” Microsoft messaging.

I’ve never been at a company where the employees are more empowered (and
valued) than Microsoft. I have a hard time imaging that Microsoft would
issue some heavy-handed policy that effectively neuters employee blogs.
