Not only does this month mark [my son’s fifth
birthday](http://techiewife.spaces.live.com/Blog/cns!3DAECC033B88329C!2065.entry),
it also marks the ten anniversary of my first date with my [awesome wife
Julianne](http://techiewife.spaces.live.com/default.aspx). I met her
online while I was laid up at home for six weeks after breaking my ankle
at hockey practice. You see, I’m not just a hockey fan, but I also
played several years of amateur league hockey in the mid-90′s. I’m not
very good, but I really love playing, though it all came to a halt when
I broke my ankle. 

Last night, for the first time literally in a decade (shit, I’m getting
old), I hit the ice for a [local TechRec league
game](http://groups.msn.com/TechRecHockeyLeague/home.msnw) (“Home of the
Thundering Nerd Herd”). And when I say “hit the ice”, I mean that fairly
literally. Man, it’s been a long time and I am WAY out of shape. I hurt
pretty much all over, but especially my right shoulder.

We only had ten skaters, which means only two lines total. I probably
skated around 20 minutes total – I spent three minutes in the penalty
box (grabbed an opposing player as I fell down) and skipped the single
power play we had. I still felt like I was gonna die by the end of the
game. Hopefully, after I get a few more games under my belt, I’ll be
able to skate more than once up and down the ice without looking to the
bench for a change. On the plus side, we won 6-2, I had an assist and
was +1 on the night.

The TechRec league is very different from the league I played in down in
SoCal. In SoCal, I played on the same team with the same players against
the same players on the same other teams season after season. Naturally,
animosity developed. In TechRec, they re-pick the teams every season, so
it seems much more friendly and less competitive. I mean, we still want
to win, but it takes on a different feel when you know some other player
you don’t like may be your teammate next season.

Major thanks to my neighbor Stephen Bury for getting me back on the ice.
I’m looking forward to ~~smashing him into the boardsgrabbing him when I
fall down~~ facing off against his team a couple of weeks.
