So after doing
[community](http://devhawk.net/2003/09/19/today-is-the-last-day-of-my-life-so-far/)
and
[marketing](http://devhawk.net/2005/01/29/atlas-brand-view-wabi-sabi-and-devhawk/)
for the Architecture Strategy Team in the last two years, I’m changing
roles on the team again. I’m going to work for [John
deVadoss](http://blogs.msdn.com/jdevados/) as a solution architect. In
other words, I’m going to actually do architecture work for the
Architecture Strategy Team. Go figure.
:smile:

Seriously, I’ve actually enjoyed working for
[Norman](http://atlasbrandview.blogspot.com/) and with
[Tanya](http://spaces.msn.com/members/wabi-sabi/). This has been in the
works for a while and I chatted about it with some of my friends who I
saw at TechEd. Someone quipped that I was “getting my brain back”. Maybe
I’m not getting the whole brain back, but I don’t really see it that
way. Marketing is very *very* *very* different from technical jobs like
development and architecture but it’s just as hard. However, it does use
a different part of the brain. So while I’m excited to moving into a
role that plays to my strength, I’m walking away from my marketing
experience with a new respect and understanding for the job.
[John](http://johnporcaro.typepad.com/blog/) [wrote
about](http://johnporcaro.typepad.com/blog/2005/06/reengineering_m.html)
SteveB talking about “selling what we build, AND building what we can
sell”. I feel that spending time in marketing has made me a better
equipped to build what we can sell. Frankly, I think more (all?)
technologists should spend a stint in marketing so they understand what
it’s all about.

Anyway, I’m still going to be involved in community and Norman considers
me a “stealth” marketing technologist (plus, he replaced me with an
experienced marketing person) so I guess I’ll also do some marketing
stuff. So I’ll continue to be involved with stuff like Architect MVP and
TechEd ARC track, which I’ve really come to enjoy. But I’ll also be
involved in projects, doing customer briefings and I’ve got a bunch of
other things brewing. So it should be fun.

However, before I make the switch I’m going on paternity leave for four
weeks first. Ahh, four weeks of rest and relaxation…yeah right. We move
into our new house on Monday so I’m looking at four weeks of heavy
lifting, sorting stuff in boxes and changing diapers (it is paternity
leave after all). I’ll try and post occasionally, but I’m going
incredibly busy and have spotty network access. I’ll probably post
pictures to my [MSN Space](http://spaces.msn.com/members/devhawk/) on
occasion since I can do that with my phone. Otherwise, I’ll see you on
the other side.
