I made it to Beijing yesterday with no problem. There was a car waiting
for me at the airport, and one of the speaker managers met me at my
hotel shortly after I arrived. They even provide a loner [dopod
SmartPhone](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsmobile/devices/devicedisplay.aspx?module=deviceDisplay;Smartphone;apac;58)
for use while I’m here though I’m not sure who I would call. I went to
the attendee dinner last night and on to a party for local partners. I
spoke to a few people, including a gentleman from [Digital
China](http://digitalchina.com/) who reads my blog. It’s nice to be
recognized at all, much less as an [International Man of
Architecture](http://devhawk.net/2004/06/15/international-man-of-architecture/).

After dinner, I worked for an hour or so with the translator for my
Metropolis session, Quanzhan. Quanzhan is from China, but he’s now a
program manager in the Windows Server division at corp – his office is
just on the other side of campus. He’s here doing presentations of his
own as well as helping out as a translator. I’ve met at least one other
Chinese person here who works in Redmond – I’m guessing presenting
TechEd China provides a great way for these folks to visit home and also
give back to the community they are from in some way.

Delivering these presentations via a translator will be an interesting
challenge. I’ve never worked thru a translator before. Each session has
it’s own unique challenge – Data in SOA is very technical while
Metropolis is pretty abstract. I ended up cutting 20 slides from today’s
Metropolis talk in order to ensure I have enough time to hit the
important points. Presenting this way requires a truly conservative
approach to word choice – even though my session is 75 minutes long, in
reality I have closer to 30 as everything I say has to be spoken twice.
I’m grateful that Quanzhan and I spent the time last night going thru
the presentation even though we were both exhausted. I guess we’ll see
how well the session goes today, but I think we’ll do well.
