So the Metropolis session went very well, even though it was being
translated. We did what is called interactive translation – where I say
a few sentences in English and then Quanzhan translated it into Chinese.
It meant that we couldn’t cover as much material but we still made
really good time – I did 52 slides (which is a significant reduction
from the full 75 slides) in exactly an hour. The audience understood at
least some of what I was saying – they laughed when I made a joke – but
it really helped me to have the time to think about my next sentence
while Quanzhan translated my last one. I was able to choose my words
carefully in order to make sure the topics were covered as concisely as
possible. I’m hoping the Data in SOA talk goes as well tomorrow. After I
finish this entry, I have to working on cutting that presentation down
to fit in an hour with translation.

After my presentation, I spent some time with an architect from China
Mobile. I love conversations where a customer challenges me to codify my
thinking – I learn from the customer as well as myself. He made a great
point about architecting for an unknown future vs. engineering for the
present. Sounds like a strong believer in
[YAGNI](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?YouArentGonnaNeedIt). While we were
discussing SOA I was able to articulate something I knew but had never
really expressed before. SOA is a means to an end, it’s not an end in
and of itself. It’s a great way, but not the only way, to enable the
flow of information across disparate systems. It’s also a great way, but
not the only way, to enable more flexibility in the way we build
systems. A key success metric for companies today is time-to-market.
However, time-to-market usually refers to the time it takes to develop
something the first time. In the future, I think the time-to-adapt will
become even more important than time-to-market. Flexibility – you *are*
gonna need it.
