If you were intrigued by my Software Factories [post last
week](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=638cf495-f51e-437b-ac7b-26557d980f9b),
you might want to consider attending [OOPSLA
’04](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowPage.do?id=Home). It’s in Vancouver
this year, making it an easy trip from Seattle for me. There’s going to
be an all-day tutorial on [Using Domain Specific Languages, Patterns,
Frameworks and Tools to Assemble
Applications](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=141) presented
by the authors of [Software
Factories](http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=0471202843).
There’s also a half-day tutorial on [Generative Software
Development](http://www.program-transformation.org/Gpce/TutorialGP3)
presented as part of the [Generative Programming and Component
Engineering ’04](http://gpce04.gpce.org/) conference, which is
co-located with OOPSLA ’04. OOPSLA will also feature talks by [Rick
Rashid](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=801), [Steve
McConnell](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=803), [Ward
Cunningham](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=802) and [Herb
Sutter](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=804). And I’m not
quite sure what this is about, but [Jaron
Lanier](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowEvent.do?id=806) will be
presenting a keynote entitled: “Exocomputing in the Year 2304: A Survey
of Confirmed Alien Information Technologies”. I’ve got to check that
out, if just to see what confirmed alien information technologies look
like.
