It’s been quiet around here as the last three weeks of October are
insane for me this year. Two weeks ago was Strategic Architect Forum as
well as the second face-to-face meeting of the Microsoft Architecture
Advisory Board this year (the first was
[reported](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/community/newsletter/022004newsletter.aspx#au2)
in the February Architecture Center Update newsletter). I’ll have much
more to say on the MAAB later, but having SAF and MAAB the same week is
tough – I worked seven days in a row including four 12+ hour days.

This past week, I was in leadership training with a bunch of teammates
and p&p folks. Spent quite a bit of time “in the circle“ with
[Ed](http://blogs.msdn.com/edjez/), [Ward](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WardCunningham) and
[Jim](http://blogs.msdn.com/jamesnewkirk) from p&p plus
[David](http://weblogs.asp.net/dphill/),
[Chris](http://blogs.msdn.com/chriskeyser) and Javed from my team (note
to self – lean on Javed to get a blog). The sessions were intense and I
learned quite a bit. I agree [with
Norman](http://atlasbrandview.blogspot.com/2004/10/very-short-entry-late-at-night-after.html) (who
was also in the training but not in my group) that we’re very fortunate
to work for a company willing to invest so much in it’s employees.
However, it was two more 12+ hour days and a total of six over nine
days. That’s now I’ve started re-reading [Software for Your
Head](http://www.softwareforyourhead.com/), which seems to share many of
the same learnings from the leadership training course. Maybe we can
start using SFYH in practice in my team – last time I read it I was part
of a distributed team working more as a collections of lone wolves.

Next week, of course, is
[OOPSLA](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/community/events/oopsla2004/)
in Vancouver. I’m driving up Sunday morning and working the booth in the
afternoon. I’ll be there all week and in the MSFT booth off and on
during the conference, so stop by and say hi. I hear you can get flu
shots in Canada, so I’m worried traffic going across the border will
stink. It’ll be a long week, but at least I get next Friday off. 
