We’re now accepting registrations and talk proposals for the [2009
Lang.NET Symposium](http://langnetsymposium.com/), which will be held on
the Microsoft campus April 14th-16th.

For those who aren’t familiar with this event, the Lang.NET Symposium is
an opportunity for programming language designers and researchers from
industry and academia to get together and basically geek out for two and
a half days. And it’s not just Microsoft language wonks like [Anders
Hejlsberg](http://langnetsymposium.com/talks/1-01%20-%20CSharp3%20-%20Anders%20Hejlsberg.html)
or platform wonks like [Don
Box](http://langnetsymposium.com/2008/talks/3-07%20-%20Modeling%20and%20Languages%20-%20Don%20Box.html "3-07 - Modeling and Languages - Don Box").
For example, last year we had [Dan Ingalls from
Sun](http://langnetsymposium.com/2008/talks/1-05%20-%20Lively%20Kernel%20-%20Dan%20Ingalls%20-%20Sun.html),
[Gilad Bracha from
Cadence](http://langnetsymposium.com/2008/talks/2-01%20-%20Newspeak%20-%20Gilad%20Braha%20-%20Cadence.html),
[John Rose from
OpenJDK](http://langnetsymposium.com/2008/talks/Slides/LangNetDVMTalk.pdf)
and [Wez Furlong from the PHP
Project](http://langnetsymposium.com/talks/2-06%20-%20PHP%20-%20Wez%20Furlong.html)
among many others.

If you’re curious about the kind of talks we typically have at Lang.NET,
the talks from [2006](http://langnetsymposium.com/2006/speakers.aspx)
and [2008](http://langnetsymposium.com/2008/talks.aspx) are available
online. 

I’ve attended
[both](http://devhawk.net/2006/08/01/lang-net-2006-symposium/)[previous](http://devhawk.net/2008/01/31/morning-coffee-141-lang-net-08-edition/)
Lang.NET Symposiums and [spoke at last year’s
event](http://langnetsymposium.com/2008/talks/3-03%20-%20Parsing%20Expression%20Grammars%20in%20FSharp%20-%20Harry%20Pierson.html),
but this will be my first as a part of the team driving the event
itself. We’ve expanded a little this year, though we’re still a small
conference so the signal-to-noise ratio should still be very high. We
barely fit in the [Platform
Lab](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=e1846ae4-f0c7-456c-a9bb-54fcf2463ead&displaylang=en)
last year, so we moved this year’s event to Microsoft Research’s [sweet
new building
\#99](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/news/features/Building_99.aspx).

This year, we’re very excited to be [joined at the
hip](http://devhawk.net/2008/12/18/the-reeses-peanut-butter-cups-of-language-conferences/)
with Chris Sells’ [DSL Developers
Conference](http://sellsbrothers.com/conference/). Those guys over in
CSD are working on some [cool language stuff of their
own](http://msdn.microsoft.com/oslo/), so it just made sense to hold the
two events in the same space, one right after the other. Note,
**registration for each event is separate**. You’re welcome to attend
both – we’d love it if you did – just make sure you register for both.

As in the past, there is no cost to attend Lang.NET. You get yourself
here and find place to stay and we’ll take care of the content, meals
and beers in the evening. Just make sure you let us know you’re coming
and what, if anything, you’re interested in getting up and talking about
by registering at [the Lang.NET Symposium
website](http://langnetsymposium.com).
