I took my wife to see [Matrix
Revolutions](http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/rv_img/rv_poster_neo.jpg),
even though I [saw it
Monday](http://devhawk.net/2003/11/19/matrix-revolutions/). Still
liked it, though the second viewing really helped me figure out what I
didn’t like about Reloaded and Revolutions. I can sum it up in two
words: The Merovingian. He represents everything thematically that was
added in the second two movies that both didn’t work and wasn’t there in
the original
[Matrix](http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/img/matrix-post5.jpg).

**Note: I’m guessing everyone who’s going to see Revolutions has seen it
by now. So there are some spoilers below. If you haven’t seen it and
want to remain blissfully unaware, stop reading now.**

The themes of Control and Choice were very strongly represented in the
original Matrix. Choice was directly represented (red pill vs. blue
pill), control somewhat less so, but still there. Certainly, there was
enough material in those themes for two more movies. Choice is stated
bluntly in the climatic battle between Neo and Smith when Smith asks Neo
why he continues to fight and Neo replies “Because I choose to”. A
little corny and heavy handed to be sure, but still consistent with the
original theme. Smith’s relation to the theme of control (or lack
thereof) is also stated bluntly by Neo: “The program Smith has grown
beyond your control”. Choice and Control come up over and over again:
The Architect’s unbalanced equations, Commander Lock’s defenses, Neo
returning to the Matrix rather than Source, Niobe going after the
Nebuchanezar, etc. Pretty much every character has to deal with Choice
and Control to some degree.

However, the Brothers Wachowski apparently decided that wasn’t enough,
so they added all the stuff about “exiled” programs. Programs hacking
programs, choosing exile over deletion, falling in love and having
daughter programs, etc. Thematically, I don’t see the connection to the
Choice and Control elements introduced in the first movie. There were
only a few machine characters in the original movie: the Agents and the
Oracle – and we didn’t know for sure that the Oracle was a program at
the time. So when we meet Merovingian, Persephone, the Twins, the Train
Man, etc. in the second and third movies, they are a major departure
from the way programs in the first movie act. They act like they have
free will. I can accept that the Oracle – a program “initially created
to investigate certain aspects of the human psyche” – would exhibit some
aspects of free will. But all programs? Come on. Free will could have
been the thing that differentiated Smith from the other Agents. Instead,
all of the programs basically act human. And their motivation makes no
sense. The Architect claimed the entire Matrix would suffer a
“cataclysmic system crash” unless the One returned to the Source. Why
would the Merovingian, who lives in the Matrix, try and stop Neo by
keeping the Keymaker prisoner? Since Merovingian has survived Neo’s
predecessors, he must have some idea what’s at stake. Of course, the Neo
the Matrix doesn’t crash when he doesn’t comply, but how would the
Merovingian know that would happen?

The really sad part is that it wouldn’t have taken much to rework the
stories without the human-acting programs. The second half of Reloaded
would have been tough. Maybe Agents would have had the Keymaker instead
of the Merovingian. Or the Twins, working for the Architect, could have
him. Revolutions would have been much easier: Merovingian et. al. are in
Revolutions for just a couple of minutes. Neo could have figured a way
back to the Matrix on his own – it’s sorta crappy when your main
character has to be rescued. After that, it’s back to just Smith and the
Oracle. Seraph can stay since he’s just a bodyguard program but Sati
would have to go. With the extra screen time, I think I would have
concentrated on the Neo / Smith relationship more. Since Smith is “the
result of the equation trying to balance itself out” then his power
should equal Neo’s. When Neo gains the power of the Source, Smith should
have had some similar improvement. But Smith’s already has the ability
to replicate as well as “reach” the real world by the time Neo meets the
Architect.

One thing I liked is that they killed off this story line, literally,
while keeping the world open for more. There’s a [Matrix
comic](http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/bk_cmp/matrixpreviewframe.html)
now and a [MMORPG coming next year](http://thematrixonline.ubi.com/US/).
I’ve seen [several short fan films](http://strangecompany.org/matrix/)
done with [Machinima](http://www.machinima.com/) plus a [hilarious
parody](http://matrix-xp.com/). I’m sure there are more out there. I’m
looking forward to more stories from the Matrix world.
