Well, the darkness continues. I’ve been doing a ton of reading, both on
and off line. I saw a
[post](http://www.corante.com/many/archives/2003/10/13/powazek_on_moderation_and_secrets.php)
on [Many 2 Many](http://www.corante.com/many/) that lead me to [Design
for Community](http://designforcommunity.com/). My copy is on the way.
But mostly, I’m busy getting as much stuff done before PDC as I can. In
addition to the [Architecture
Symposium](http://msdn.microsoft.com/events/pdc/architecture_symposium.aspx)
@ [PDC](http://msdn.microsoft.com/events/pdc), my group is doing two
other big events the following week, so things are a little crazy around
here.

One of the things that’s been taking up my time is getting my new
machine configured. I’m doing a good job keeping my host WinXP install
clean, while installing all my development tools into VPCs. One of the
benefits of working on campus is that I now have access to Indigo and
Longhorn. I’ve got one VPC with Longhorn already and I’m setting up an
Indigo/Whidbey VPC. I also want to kick the tires on Yukon, but I think
I’m going to build a separate VPC for that.

Finally, I got my new business cards. Our [e-procurement
tool](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/itsolutions/msit/infowork/msmproc.asp)
includes a preview of what your business card will look like. My cards
from my previous role first had the .NET logo, then I changed to the
VS.NET logo. I decided to just go w/ the vanilla logo cards this time.

<div
style="BORDER-RIGHT: black 1px solid; PADDING-RIGHT: 5px; BORDER-TOP: black 1px solid; PADDING-LEFT: 5px; FILTER: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.DropShadow(color=#999999,offX=3,offY=3); PADDING-BOTTOM: 5px; BORDER-LEFT: black 1px solid; WIDTH: 3.5in; PADDING-TOP: 5px; BORDER-BOTTOM: black 1px solid; HEIGHT: 2in; BACKGROUND-COLOR: white">

<div style="FONT-SIZE: 7pt; FLOAT: left; FONT-FAMILY: arial">

<div>

<div>

Microsoft Corporation

</div>

<div>

One Microsoft Way

</div>

<div>

Redmond, WA 98052-6399

</div>

</div>

<div style="MARGIN-TOP: 10px">

<div>

http://devhawk.net

</div>

<div>

Tel (425) 705-6045

</div>

<div>

Fax (425) 936-7329

</div>

</div>

<div style="MARGIN-TOP: 0.55in">

<div style="FONT-WEIGHT: bold; FONT-SIZE: 8pt; FONT-FAMILY: arial">

Harry Pierson

</div>

<div>

Software Architect, Community

</div>

<div>

NET Enterprise Architecture Team

</div>

<div>

hpierson @ microsoft .com

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div style="MARGIN-TOP: 1in; MARGIN-RIGHT: 30px; TEXT-ALIGN: right">

![](http://s3.amazonaws.com/devhawk_images/MSLogoBIZ.gif)

</div>

</div>

Since I’m doing community, I figured I should post my contact info where
the community can get it. Our IT dept. just moved my mailbox to a bigger
server plus I’m running [Outlook
2003](http://www.microsoft.com/office/preview/editions/outlook.asp)‘s
[Junk Mail
Filter](http://www.microsoft.com/office/preview/editions/junkmail.asp),
so I should be able to handle any increase in email traffic, both
legitimate and spam. (Though I did add spaces in my email address above
try and avoid automatic harvesting.) If you have specific ideas around
architecture, community and Microsoft, please send them along. I’ve
already gotten a good suggestion from [Jimmy
Nilsson](http://www.jnsk.se/weblog/) and [Enrico
Sabbadin](http://www.sabbasoft.com/).
