A while ago,
[Tom](http://conpro.net/)[mentioned](http://www.conpro.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=558f432f-3118-4ad2-ba50-b3476a8849b6)
that I had a great customer service experience with T-Mobile.
Truthfully, the great customer service experience came today. T-Mobile
just earned a customer for…well, maybe not for life, but they certainly
have earned enough karma to keep me around a while. And at the same
time, Sprint has spurned a customer for life.

I
[blogged](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=75f886b0-06db-4cf1-9534-604a518841f8)
back in April about getting a SmartPhone. Well, the honeymoon was short
lived – it was a developer beta unit and it was not particularly robust.
I dropped it about a month ago and it died. No huge deal, the
[MPx220](http://www.motorola.com/motoinfo/product/details/0,,53,00.html)
is coming soon. Of course, I need a phone in the meantime. I had signed
up for T-Mobile service to power the SmartPhone so I went back to pick
up a
[V300](http://www.motorola.com/mdirect/hellomoto/experience/v300/flash/index.shtml)
which would go to my wife when the MPx220 became available. Only trouble
was that since I hadn’t bought the phone when I activated my account, I
was not eligible for an activation discount. I had asked about that when
I bought the service, and had been assured it was no big deal. So I call
up customer service, and they promise to wave the disconnect fee on the
current account if I buy a new phone (with the activation discount).
This was right before I went to New Zealand, so I figured I’d take care
of it when I got back. In the meantime, I’m using a old borrowed phone
and my existing account.

So I’ve been back a week, but hadn’t gotten to taking care of the phone
yet. Then last night, someone steals my phone and my wife’s phone out of
the car. So I call T-Mobile and explain the situation. They cancel the
account on the spot, outright – no early termination fee or anything.
Pretty cool. Of course, I did tell them I was going to buy not one but
two new [V300′s from
Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/stores/detail/-/wireless/B0000WZWSI/ref=w_zr_hp_td_blah2/002-7066890-6721622)
(for the low price of -\$100 each after rebate) but still, I thought
that was pretty cool. The only bummer of this whole scenario is that I
won’t be able to get the MPx220 with an activation discount when it
comes up.

After talking to T-Mobile, I called Sprint. Now, I’ve been a Sprint
customer for five years. You would think that would warrant a little
respect and/or leeway, but apparently not. The “customer service” rep I
spoke to was both rude and stupid. He was able to suspend my wife’s
phone, but when I asked to cancel it he told me there would be an early
termination fee. Funny thing is, the term on this “contract” (which I
never signed and was unaware of) end’s on the 28th of August. You know,
next Saturday. As in, six days from today. You would think that you
might give a customer of five years who is dealing with a case of theft
the benefit of the doubt and wave the early termination fee less than a
week before the contract expires anyway. No, apparently I have to call
back Saturday to terminate the contract. Fine. I set a reminder on my
calendar so I don’t forget to rid myself of Sprint for good and forever.
