[Graham
Glass](http://grahamglass.blogs.com/main/2006/06/thought_provoki.html)
called [this article](http://www.wesjones.com/gatto1.htm) “thought
provoking”. Calling that an understatement is an understatement it and
of itself. The article is by [John Taylor
Gatto](http://www.johntaylorgatto.com/), former NY State and NYC teacher
of the year. In this article, he completely shreds the modern school
system. He describes our education system as “deliberately designed to
produce mediocre intellects, to hamstring the inner life, to deny
students appreciable leadership skills, and to ensure docile and
incomplete citizens – all in order to render the populace ‘manageable’”.

I’ve long had issues with the education system (I’d say “of this
country” but it’s fairly universal) but I couldn’t ever articulate them.
I’ve been known to say stuff like “a diploma is evidence of attendance,
not intelligence” and “never let school stand in the way of your
education”. I got better at understanding the problem after reading [The
Third Wave](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Third_Wave_%28book%29).
Toffler points out the need for an industrial society to have a mass
education system to turn children into factory workers. But Toffler
doesn’t really get into the downside of the mass education approach the
way Gatto does. Note to self, pick up Gatto’s book [The Underground
History of American
Education](http://www.johntaylorgatto.com/underground/index.htm).

As I type this, I wonder if I’ll regret blogging this when my kids are
in school. I can almost hear the argument now: “Dad, why should I have
to go to school if you think it’s designed to produce mediocre
intellects?” Frankly, I don’t have a good answer for that now and I
doubt I’ll have a good one then. (“I don’t know. Go ask your mother.”
Kidding!)

You know, now that I think about it, I’m looking forward to that
conversation with my kids. Gatto suggests teaching your own children to
be leaders and adventures instead of letting schools train them to be
employees and servants. A frank discussion about the value of school
sounds much more like leadership than servitude to me.

Update: You can read the book [online for
free](http://www.johntaylorgatto.com/chapters/index.htm) or you can [buy
the book](http://www.johntaylorgatto.com/bookstore/index.htm) (and
others) online from Gatto’s website.
