With apparently no fanfare, the Business Process Execution Language for
Web Services (or BPEL) spec has been reved to 1.1. You can get it online
from
[MSDN](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/dnbiz2k2/html/bpel1-1.asp?frame=true),
[IBM
developerWorks](http://www-106.ibm.com/developerworks/webservices/library/ws-bpel/)
and [BEA dev2dev](http://dev2dev.bea.com/techtracks/BPEL4WS.jsp). For
those who haven’t seen BPEL, it: “BPEL4WS represents a convergence of
the ideas in the
[XLANG](http://www.gotdotnet.com/team/xml_wsspecs/xlang-c/default.htm)
and
[WSFL](http://www-3.ibm.com/software/solutions/webservices/pdf/WSFL.pdf)
specifications.” XLANG is the language that powers [Microsoft BizTalk
Server](http://www.microsoft.com/biztalk/).

In other personal programming news, even though I’m in a
[Phoenix](PermaLink.aspx?guid=6a7eecb5-9ba3-4322-88ac-158d821797c9)[hotel](PermaLink.aspx?guid=d040a503-81f8-4548-b6d1-d87f9d14cf8e),
I didn’t work on my weblog infrastructure. I’m waiting to see what comes
next from [blogX](http://www.simplegeek.com/). With Chris and
[Don](http://www.gotdotnet.com/team/dbox/) working on it, my time is
better spent in other places. I did build a tool to download my weblog
entries and store them in a single XML file on my local system. Even
converts from HTML to XHTML via
[SgmlReader](http://www.gotdotnet.com/Community/UserSamples/Details.aspx?SampleGuid=B90FDDCE-E60D-43F8-A5C4-C3BD760564BC).
So I’m ready to migrate to something else.

Since I’m not building blog tools, I spent my hotel evening last night
with [Windows SharePoint
Services](http://www.microsoft.com/sharepoint/preview/overview_wss.asp)
(WSS). The more I play with this product, the more impressed I am with
it. One of the features of WSS is the ability to be notified via email
when something changes (a doc, a folder, a list, etc). Of course, those
of us in the blogsphere would rather have an RSS feed to tell when
something changed. So I built an RSS feed generator for WSS. I will post
it after it undergoes some basic smoke testing (I sent it to
[Matt](http://technovangelist.com/) to see if he could get it to work).
Since [Office SharePoint Portal
Server](http://www.microsoft.com/sharepoint/preview/overview_sps.asp)
(SPS) is built on the same technology, it should work there as well (I
asked Matt, who has an SPS up and running, to try this out too).

Finally, welcome [Robert
Scoble](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2003/04/15.html#a2766) to MSFT.
Interesting to see that he credits his weblog for helping him get hired.
Glad to have you on board!
