Big news in DevHawk land: I’ll be taking on a new role in the
[Windows](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/) division after I come back
from [TechEd Europe](http://www.msteched.com/europe/Public/) (plus a
week vacation visiting my bro-in-law in Germany after TechEd).

You guys have heard of Windows, right? They just released [a new
version](http://www.microsoft.com/Windows/windows-7/default.aspx)
recently you might be aware of…Actually, I hear it was [your
idea](http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/microsoftpri0/2010119125_windows_7_launch_microsoft_new_ads_say_windows_was.html)!

Seriously, I am *stoked* to be joining the Windows team. I can’t say much
about the new job beyond a) it’s in Windows Client (as opposed to
Windows Server) and b) I’m working on a team that’s focused on the
Windows developer experience. The Windows team is deep in what you might
call “building on teh awesome that is Windows 7” but that they simply
call “planning”, so sorry if specifics are kinda sparse. I’ll be back
working for [Mahesh Prakriya](http://twitter.com/maheshp), who
originally hired me into my current role on the IronPython team. Someday
I might tell you the Mahesh PyCon Lego Story, but for now I’ll just say
I was great working for Mahesh the first time and I think this time is
going to be even better.

Working on Windows…focused on developer experience…for Mahesh – It’s
like the perfect storm of work geekdom for me.

Of course, starting a new job means my time on the IronPython team is
coming to an end. As excited as I am about this new opportunity in the
Windows division, I’m a little sad to be leaving Developer Division and
the IronPython team. I’ve joked with audiences that I care about Python
because Microsoft pays me to care about Python, but that’s not
completely true. [Python](http://python.org/) is a fantastic language
and IronPython’s combination of Python + .NET is hard to beat in my
opinion. IronPython has made significant progress while I’ve been here
the last eighteen months – two major releases (well, 2.6 is almost
done), redisting the Python standard library, Visual Studio 2010 compat
– but there’s still much for IronPython to accomplish. And of course,
leaving behind such great teammates like
[Dino](http://twitter.com/dinoviehland),
[Dave](http://twitter.com/davefugate),
[Jim](http://twitter.com/jredville) and
[Jimmy](http://twitter.com/jschementi) is ALWAYS hard.

The Windows team is somewhat tighter lipped than the totally transparent
approach we use in IronPython. Not to worry, my evangelism skills were
part of the reason I got the job so you’ll be hearing plenty from me
soon enough. However, my posting here will be kinda sparse until I get
my bearings over there. Until then, I’m sure that you will be absolutely
fascinated by non-work-related-but-still-sometimes-geeky minutia I [post
on Twitter](http://twitter.com/devhawk).
