My parents (avid Caps fans and season ticket holders – at least for now)
pointed me to the “[Owner’s
Corner](http://www.washingtoncaps.com/news/index.cfm?cont_id=234670)” on
the official Washington Capitals
[homepage](http://www.washingtoncaps.com/) where the owner attempts to
explain without “spin” the moves that he has taken over the past month.
It may not be obvious from my [original
post](http://devhawk.net/2004/02/19/doing-the-unthinkable/)
on the subject, but I agree with most of his deals. Jagr wasn’t worth
the money, Lang and Nylander were recent free agents and I hear Gonchar
wanted to leave. Most of all, they just weren’t getting it done. I agree
with Ted when he writes that he’s “not committed to … a \$50-million
payroll for a team that is last in its division.” Especially when the
division in question is the worst in the league. Tampa Bay might be
good, but the reason are in the race for the President’s Trophy is
because they get to play the other four teams in this wretched division
the most. (Of the six teams under .500 in the Eastern Conference, four
are from the Southwest Conference. That’s every team except Tampa Bay)

However, he glosses over so many ugly details but I can’t help but see
spin.

-   He refers to Kolzig, Halpern, Witt and Zubrus as “a strong core of
    veteran leaders”. However, Kolzig and Halpern sat out the last game
    before the trading deadline – a pretty sure sign they were being
    shopped around as trade bait. Zubrus has been injured off-and-on. So
    they are more like “a strong core of veteran players we couldn’t
    trade”.
-   He explains that Konowalchuk was traded since he would have been an
    unrestricted free agent at the end of the year. That’s a great
    reason to trade a player – even the captain. I can see trading the
    captain as part of a fire sale at the end of a losing season.
    However, that’s not what happened to Kono – he was traded back in
    October when the season wasn’t even a month old. He wasn’t traded
    because he was going to be a free agent. I’m not sure why he was
    traded, but the rumor mill is that he and then-coach Cassidy didn’t
    get along. Which brings me to…
-   How come there’s no mention of the utter failure the Bruce Cassidy
    head coaching experiment was? Cassidy lasted all of a year and a
    half – getting fired in December of this year. Word is the players
    didn’t like him (see bullet above). Leonsis has thrown his support
    behind now-head-coach Hanlon, but he did that before firing Ron
    Wilson a few years ago (Ron’s now leading the San Jose Sharks to the
    Pacific Division championship). In the end, all of this talent
    wasting comes down to be the coach’s fault – and the hiring of that
    coach is the GM and owner’s fault.
-   Finally, he totally glosses over any explanation of the Bondra
    trade. For all the other traded players, he detailed the hot young
    prospects or high draft picks we got in return. For Bondra, he
    writes of “ensuring” Bondra was “comfortable” on a team with “a
    legitimate opportunity to win the Cup this year”. The truth is that
    Bondra was “comfortable” where he was and had no interest in
    leaving, even for a “legitimate opportunity to win the Cup this
    year”. Also, while Leonsis is technically correct when he writes
    that Bondra was in the last year of his contract, the fact is that
    Bondra’s contract had a team option for another year. Given that his
    contract wasn’t really ending and that Leonsis acknowledged that
    they didn’t save a significant amount by trading him (the Caps had
    paid 70% of his salary already), why would you trade “Mr. Capital”?
-   Even if he couldn’t produce (which he could – he still leads the
    team in power play goals), Bondra was the perfect mentor for
    Alexander Semin. Semin is a gifted 19 year old Russian who the Caps
    picked up in last year’s draft. He’s a little undersized for the NHL
    at this point, but he sure can skate and shoot. He had a gorgeous
    rebound goal against Atlanta the other night. The announcer even
    said something to the effect of “I’ve called his name so much that I
    thought he’d had 10-15 minutes of ice time so far. Turns out he’s
    only had seven”. Semin’s story is very similar to Bondra’s, who came
    over from Slovakia as a 19 year old. Who better to learn about
    America and the NHL from than a five-time all-star who started out
    exactly like you did?

Sorry Ted, we can all see you spin. The most depressing part of the
Owner’s Corner for me is that you are still the owner and that doesn’t
look like it’s changing anytime soon.
