I finally made the decision to dump
[SharpReader](http://www.sharpreader.com/). The massive memory
utilization (100+ MB) combined with the myriad of alert toast popups
finally sealed the deal. Currently, I’m using
[intraVnews](http://www.intravnews.com/) and I’m going to try out the
new [NewsGator](http://www.newsgator.com/) when it’s available.

Reading blogs in Outlook does take some getting used to. Search Folders
makes it easier, but then my feeds are sorted alphabetically rather than
by the feed category (i.e. the parent folder). Is there a hotkey or
shortcut for jumping to the next unread item (even if it’s in a
different folder) when using the reading pane? Also, I’m used to
deleting emails after I’ve read them but I’m used to letting posts get
deleted when they are a couple weeks old. IntraVnews supports this
option, but maybe I’m better off treating posts like email and deleting
them when I’m done.

Don mentioned he was going to roll his own blog engine so he can use it
for experimentation. (I’d link to the entry bu permalinks seem to be
broken in his current blog engine). I keep thinking of the same thing
about news readers.

Update – thanks to Wesner Moise for pointing out to me in my comments
how to turn off the alert toast popups. However, I’m still going to
stick it out with an Outlook based solution. Luckily, I’m not like most
‘softies w/ a ton of unread email in my inbox so the built-in search
folder works fine.
