All it takes is one bad trip to remind me why I took a job that only
requires a handful of trips a year. Pat
[mentioned](http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland/archive/2004/07/14/182963.aspx)
that this is the week of our big annual internal training event in
Atlanta. We had a two day pre-training event for all our field
architects. (which explains the lack of posts around here.) We need to
keep them in the know about the content and programs we are working on
back at corporate, plus these are great bunch of people so it’s always
nice to hang out with them. Too bad the travel has been such a
nightmare.

My flights into and out of Atlanta were each several hours late. Getting
an elevator in the hotel took forever – once over 15 minutes! The
70-story Westin was booked to capacity, and I guess everyone wanted an
elevator at 8am in the morning. But given that “booked to capacity” is a
desirable state for any hotel, why didn’t they design for that
eventuality? I mean, it’s not exactly an edge case scenario. Then, I
left the pre-training early to visit a customer in Minneapolis. The
customer meeting went great, but we had a miscommunication on the
meeting time and I missed my flight home. So now I’m hanging around the
Minneapolis/St. Paul airport hoping to get home flying standby.

It was pointed out to me that I’m not supposed to be visiting customers
anymore, and after this trip I’m inclined to agree. However, you can’t
solve real world problems if you don’t get out and experience real world
customers and their real world problems from time to time. Usually, I
meet with customers who come for executive briefings on campus. This
meeting in Minneapolis grew out of one of those on-campus briefings. And
since I was on the road anyway, I didn’t think it would be a big. Next
time, I think I’ll opt to attend via Live Meeting.
