For a while, I really didn’t understand where this session was going.
Michael spent a bunch of time on the issues of user experience design
that I’m not familiar with. I still don’t know why he was talking about
the [Cuddle
Chimp](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B0009351ES/103-0060861-4573421).
But then he started talking about the importance of the sketching
process to the practice of design. His meta point is that sketching is
the root design tool, and different mediums are better or worse at
supporting sketching. Drawing, as you might expect, is the best medium
for sketching. Hardware is the worst. Michael rated a variety of
sketching mediums based on Speed, Provisionality and History
Preservation. By this time I figured out they were talking about
enabling sketching of hardware.

Then Matt got up. I didn’t get his bio written down, but he is a
professor of experience design. And he was talking about a product he’s
been involved in to enable rapid sketching of hardware user experiences
using simple sensors and motors. The product is called
[Nada](http://www.sketchtools.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=blogcategory&id=35&Itemid=91)
and it supports Flash and Java. No .NET? Nope, but I spoke to Matt after
the session about it. The demos were pretty cool. He controlled the
opacity of an element in Flash with a hardware potentiometer. He
controlled the speed of a fan based on the current temperature reported
via a website. He showed a variety of other sensors like light sensors
and flex resiststors. These demos weren’t that compelling, but the
potential is huge. It can connect to variety of hardware systems
including serial port devices, MIDI devices, plus kits like
[Teleo](http://www.makingthings.com/) and
[Phidgets](http://www.phidgets.com/). I’m thinking
[Scott](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/) needs to check this out for a
future installment of [Some Assembly
Required](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/someassemblyrequired).
