My wife and I saw the latest Harry Potter movie over the weekend. It’s
my favorite so far. I’m not sure if it was the new director, or just the
fact that this book was longer than the first two, but I thought this
movie spent far less time on stuff from the book that wasn’t relevant to
the story. I took a film class back in high school, and the teacher
explained that every scene in a movie has to do one of three things.

1.  Advance the plot
2.  Advance the character
3.  Get a laugh

I amended rule \#3 to be “Get a reaction” since there are often scenes
in a horror or thriller movie that are there just to scare you. The
first two Harry Potter movies seemed to spend a significant amount of
screen time on getting the reaction: “I remember that from the book”.
For example, in the last movie, when Harry and Ron drink a potion to
transform into Malfoy’s two henchmen (henchboys?) , Hermione
accidentally transforms herself into a cat. The only reason that scene
is in the movie is because it’s in the book. Not having Hermione doesn’t
affect Harry and Ron’s mission (i.e. it didn’t advance the plot) nor was
there any fallout or change to Hermione in later scenes (i.e. it didn’t
advance the character). It doesn’t even get a laugh. Given the Harry
Potter movies are around 2 1/2 hours long each, there’s no excuse for
extraneous scenes like this.

Kill Bill Vol 2, Troy, Shrek 2 and Harry Potter so far with Spider-Man 2
and King Arthur on the horizon. Sure we’ve had Van Helsing and The Day
After Tomorrow, but so far the summer movie season is looking good.
