A year ago, I was [pointing
out](http://devhawk.net/2003/12/09/to-err-is-human/)
how badly messed up the BCS computer system was, denying the unanimous
\#1 ranked team in the land a shot at the national championship game.
This year, USC has gone wire to wire ranked \#1 and will face the \#2
Oklahoma Sooners for the national championship. Fight On!

Of course, there are those pointing out the fact that \#3 Auburn went
undefeated creates an “[unprecedented headache for the
BCS](http://msn.foxsports.com/story/3218490)“. Excuse me? What a bunch
of crap. The BCS is supposed to make sure there’s a unified national
champion – something it failed to do last year I might point out  - by
having the top two teams play each other. USC and Oklahoma have been \#1
and \#2 all year, and they’re playing each other. Sure, it sucks to be
Auburn, go undefeated and still come up third. But there’s no question
who the top two teams are – they’ve been the same all year.

I’m sure this will revive the yearly “BCS sucks, we need a playoff”
talk. Quick memo to playoff people: any college football playoff system
is going to screw someone. For example, a 4 team playoff this year
(using the BCS rankings) would have been USC, Oklahoma, Auburn and
Texas, screwing unanimous \#4 ranked Cal. An 8 team playoff would add
Cal, Utah, Georgia and Va Tech, but screw Louisville who’s ranked at
least 8th in both polls. Even a 16 team playoff – which is virtually
infeasible – would screw unanimous \#16 ranked Wisconsin. So let’s not
pretend this issue will go away by playing more games.

Do I think the BCS works well now? No, even though USC didn’t get
screwed this year (not exactly a ringing endorsement). Personally, I
think BCS computer system should only be used when the polls don’t
agree. There’s just no objective way to measure the relative records of
teams that don’t play the same teams. Thus, leave it in the hands of the
humans, and use the computers to break ties when they happen. It would
have given us a USC vs. LSU championship last year and still had a USC
vs. OU championship this year.
