I had eight people waiting to be admitted to the [SharePoint
Syndication](http://devhawk.net/prj_SharePointSynd.aspx) [GDN
Workspace](http://www.gotdotnet.com/Community/Workspaces/workspace.aspx?id=bef1fffe-6d20-42c8-a72d-ae7e9a5a194b).
Sorry for the delay folks – my workspace was maxed out on users and I
had to get upgraded by GDN. Anyway, I’ve been given more membership
slots, so the people who’ve been waiting – some since January – are now
in.

There has been a lot of interest in this project and others like it.
[Jonathan Malek](http://www.jonathanmalek.com/blog/) has his [SpsRssGen
project](http://www.jonathanmalek.com/blog/articles/179.aspx). [Sig
Weber](http://www.asaris-matrix.com/sweber/playground/default.aspx) has
an [RSS Generator for
SPS](http://www.asaris-matrix.com/sweber/playground/Lists/Announcements/DispForm.aspx?ID=23&Source=http://www.asaris-matrix.com/sweber/playground/default.aspx).
All in all, there is quite a bit of interest in this developing for
SharePoint in general and creating syndication feeds in particular. Too
bad I can’t get more involved. With my new job, I just don’t have the
time to work on this project anymore.
:frowning:

Since I can’t keep the project up, I’m wondering if someone else would
like to take up the reins. I posted all the code to the workspace, but
so far there’s been little traffic other than people wanting to join. I
was hoping for more participation, but then I haven’t done anything to
foster that so I really can’t complain. So let me ask explicitly: If
you’re interested in being an admin on this project, please send me
[email](mailto:hpierson@microsoft.com?subject=SPSynd). Once I get an
admin (or two) and a core group of interested developers, I’ll start
hosting chats / email lists / live meetings / conference calls / smoke
signals / whatever to discuss the project direction. Personally, my \#1
feature is an admin interface for creating the syndication feeds
integrated directly into the existing SharePoint admin interface. Not
sure how doable that is, but let’s find out. After that, I’m open to
suggestions as to project direction.

