[Michael Earls](http://www.cerkit.com/cerkitBlog/default.aspx) is
[pleading](http://www.cerkit.com/cerkitBlog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=9ededd3b-a7a3-401a-9a74-63e048c5e68e)
with MS bloggers to focus on released bits instead of all the cool
future stuff we previewed @ PDC. He is especially frustrated with [my
response](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=1d8069de-f57b-429e-a749-c79d43633f75)
to [Scoble’s
post](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2003/12/15.html#a5767) about how
syndication will look in the Longhorn timeframe. Mike, I can’t speak for
Scoble or any of the other MS bloggers, but I’m sorry that it’s been
hard to keep up. You’re a member of my [target
audience](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=e16c7694-ead9-40da-a9ca-18af6359680c),
so it’s good to know where we are missing the mark.

In my post, I said that Scoble shouldn’t focus on how syndication
evolves in the Longhorn timeframe, rather how it evolves in the face of
Service Oriented Architecture. And as watered down and nebulous as the
term SOA is, when I use it I’m not implying that you have to wait for
Longhorn. Indigo will be a great platform for services, but that doesn’t
mean you can’t do them today. In fact, the advice coming out of my group
is to start doing services right away. Check out the first two sessions
from the PDC Architecture Symposium
([here](http://microsoft.sitestream.com/PDC2003/ARC/ARCSYM1.htm) and
[here](http://microsoft.sitestream.com/PDC2003/ARC/ARCSYM2.htm)). In 110
slides there are only about three slides that mention Longhorn, Indigo
or Yukon. The rest of the slides are focused on “Practical Advice for
Building Your Services Now” ([PPT
deck](http://microsoft.sitestream.com/PDC2003/ARC/ARCSYM1_files/Botto_files/ARCSYM1_Helland.ppt)
from first session, slide 5). Stuff that you gotta worry about
regardless of the infrastructure you’re building on. Tentative
Operations. Avoiding Ambiguity in Messages. Stability of Data and
MetaData. Service Masters and Service Agents. Mike, when you get a
chance, please check out those sessions from the PDC Architecture
Symposium and then [let me
know](mailto:hpierson%20at%20microsoft%20dot%20com) if they can help you
right now.

It’s too bad the [chapter on
SOA](http://msdn.microsoft.com/Longhorn/understanding/books/migrationguide/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnlongmig/html/intmiglongch02.asp)
that’s posted on MSDN is from a [book on
Longhorn](http://msdn.microsoft.com/Longhorn/understanding/books/migrationguide/default.aspx).
That implies you can’t do one without the other. Truth is, you can build
traditional tightly coupled apps with Longhorn and, more importantly,
you can build services without Longhorn.

What’s weird is that I’m actually not dogfooding anything right now. Oh,
I have a VPC with the PDC Longhorn bits and another with Yukon and
Whidbey installed, but I haven’t spent much time with them recently. I
guess I didn’t make it clear in my [recent
post](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=974e04d8-30fe-44ba-9103-b8397a2c7b2e)
on SQL Service Broker that I can’t wait for it because I’m not actually
using it yet. The only beta software I’m running on my host machine is
[Firebird](http://mozilla.org/products/firebird/) and
[Thunderbird](http://mozilla.org/products/thunderbird/). I have two
primary development VPC’s – XP and WS03 – and the only beta stuff
running in either is [WSE
2](http://msdn.microsoft.com/webservices/building/wse/default.aspx).
Call me a slacker, but Whidbey/Yukon/Longhorn aren’t far enough along
yet for my current projects.
