Last week, I wrote about the [college football
logjam](http://devhawk.net/2006/10/01/college-football-logjam/).
While we’ve seen [one team fall
out](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/recap?gameId=262800002) of the
running, the overall race for the \#2 slot has tightened significantly.
Last week, Auburn and USC held a small yet significant advantage in the
voting over West Virginia, Florida and Michigan. This week, that margin
is gone. Auburn’s loss combined with SC’s [wholly unimpressive
win](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/recap?gameId=262800030&confId=9) (spoken
as an SC alumni) over the Huskies and Florida’s [impressive
win](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/recap?gameId=262800057) over \#9 LSU
creates essentially a four way tie for second place. Only 100 votes
separate \#2 from \#5 in both the [AP and USA Today
polls](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/rankingsindex?pollId=null&weekNumber=7&seasonYear=2006).

There are also a few other undefeated teams in the top 25: \#7
Louisville, \#19 Missouri, \#20 Boise State and \#24 Rutgers. Baring
significant upheaval in the polls, only Louisville really has a shot to
join the group at the top. They play West Virginia in a few weeks, so
the winner of that game will likely stay in the hunt for the BCS title
game. And Ohio State still plays Michigan at the end of the season, so
we’re still looking at a maximum of four unbeaten teams.

As bad as this scenario is, it’s even worse to consider what happens if
*all* these unbeaten teams lose. Currently, Texas, Tennessee, Notre
Dame, California, and Auburn are all essentially out of the hunt. As
long as there are at least two unbeaten teams, really none of these
teams can legitimately argue that they deserve a shot at the title. But
you can bet that ranked one-loss teams will be highly-motivated to beat
ranked no-loss teams in order to be able to make a case for inclusion in
the title game. USC plays \#18 Oregon State, \#10 Cal and \#9 Notre
Dame. Florida plays at Auburn and Georgia. Michigan plays Iowa (not to
mention \#1 ranked Ohio State).

If I was a betting man, instead of an Trojan fan, I would bet the BCS
title game would be between West Virginia and the winner of the Ohio
State / Michigan game. Obviously, if SC plays Notre Dame the way they
played against Washington, they’ll lose. But SC will be amped to the max
for Notre Dame, so I would be more concerned about SC looking past
Oregon State or Cal the way they obviously didn’t take Washington
seriously. By the same reasoning, I figure Auburn has a
better-than-decent chance of beating Florida next week. If SC and
Florida lose, that leaves three unbeaten teams, two of which play each
other. Hence my prediction.

Of course, I’m not a betting man, so I’m hoping to see the winner of
Ohio State and Michigan play USC for the championship. Note I wrote
“hoping” which is code for “that’s only going to happen if they play
better than they did the past two weeks”.
