The new MSN Toolbar is [now publicly available in
beta](http://beta.toolbar.msn.com/). The big new feature is the
integrated desktop search. I’ve been running internal builds for a
while, and I love it. Obviously, comparisons will be drawn to Google
Desktop but I can’t comment because Google Desktop wouldn’t run on my
machine because I have the Microsoft ISA Server client (according to the
[Google Desktop Help
Center](http://desktop.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=10742),
the latest version of the ISA client should work, but that’s what I was
running). However, from looking at the [Google Desktop screen
shots](http://desktop.google.com/screenshots.html), I know that Google
doesn’t have my favorite feature of the MSN Toolbar – the
[Deskbar](http://beta.search.msn.com/docs/toolbar.aspx?t=MSNTbar_CONC_AboutDeskbar.htm).
It’s available via keyboard shortcut (Ctrl-Alt-M) and supports program
execution (type “=appname” to launch appname) as well as [typing
shortcuts](http://beta.search.msn.com/docs/toolbar.aspx?t=MSNTBar_CONC_AboutDeskbarShortcuts.htm&v=02.00.00).
I also like the search results page as I can narrow where my search
executes in real time. For example, if I type “OOPSLA” into my deskbar
it auto executes the the search across all locations on my desktop. As
you would expect, the search screen is near-instant – just the time it
takes to draw the window. Then I can narrow down to just show results
from Documents, Email, Music, Pictures & Video, Email Attachments,
Meetings, Contacts, etc. - in all around 19 different locations. I’m
also only one click away from searching the web, news or images online
from the search results screen.
