My wife was poking around on [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/) and
found two videos she wanted to show me. The first was a music video from
a band called [okgo](http://okgo.net) where they [dance on
treadmills](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pv5zWaTEVkI). Interesting for
about 60 seconds. Unfortunately, the video is three minutes long. Still,
it is currently \#8 on YouTube’s [Most Watched All
Time](http://www.youtube.com/browse?s=mp&t=a) list. The other was a much
funnier video called [Stick Magnetic Ribbons on Your
SUV](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmsOIjzQ1V8) (sung to the tune of
[Tie a Yellow Ribbon ‘Round the Old Oak
Tree](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_ribbon)). The song is by the
[Asylum Street Spankers](http://www.asylumstreetspankers.com/) and the
video was produced by [Devil’s Night
Productions](http://devilsnight.com).

Among Devil’s Night’s other work is an almost unknown movie called
[Matters of Consequence](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0480557/) that
stared [Morty Coyle](http://www.myspace.com/morty). Morty fronts a band
called [All Day Sucker](http://www.alldaysucker.net/), which was born
out of the ashes of a band called THE iMPOSTERS. Back when I lived in
LA, I used to go see THE iMPOSTERS pretty much whenever they played.
This must have been the second half of 1996, when I was dealing with a
massively broken heart. They had a regular gig every week, though I
forget the name of the place. But I was there, pretty much every week. I
used to carry Morty around the club on my shoulders during the harmonica
solo of Rational Anthem. Wow, was that really 10 years ago?

Anyway, you check out a few songs from of All Day Sucker on their
[MySpace page](http://www.myspace.com/alldaysuckermyspace). Some of the
songs – Heavy Weather and Rub It In – date back to the iMPOSTERS days.
Their album is available from [CD
Baby](http://www.cdbaby.com/cd/alldaysucker) and from
[Zune](http://zune.net),
[Rhapsody](http://www.rhapsody.com/alldaysucker?pcode=msn&cpath=artistpage&rsrc=alldaysucker)
and
[iTunes](http://phobos.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewArtist?artistId=14076567).
(No direct link for artists on Zune?) Check them out.

It’s amazing how small the world seems when you run across old friends
online like this. Especially when the recent wind storm and power outage
two weeks ago served as such a rude reminder of just how big the world
really is, regardless of how it seems.
