Almost our whole team moved offices yesterday. We used to be spread out
across campus in 34, 40, 22 and 119. Now, we’ll all be on one hallway in
18. It’s a little unnerving to be able to walk the hall and see
*everybody* after spending 6 months on a team who saw each other about
once a month. Unnerving, but very very cool.

As you can see on this
[map](http://www.microsoft.com/careers/images/campus_map.gif), 18 is in
the NW corner of the main campus. From the posters left behind, I’m
guessing Mac Office used to be here – I
[think](http://blogs.msdn.com/loripe/archive/2004/04/12/111732.aspx) the
whole Office group is moving to 36, the newest building on campus. (36
is so new, it’s not even on the map yet. It’s to the east of 3.) Not
sure how nice 36 is, but 18 is much nicer than 22. About 30 feet from my
office is a large lounge area with \~10 couches and wireless access. We
have a full size cafe with ATM. And, now that we’re on main campus,
we’re much closer to meetings with other groups (other than DevDiv – we
used to be just across the street from them).

I was going to bring a camera and post some pictures of our new offices,
but I forgot in a haze of sleeplessness. Julie and Patrick went to LA
this morning for the weekend, and we had to get up at 5am to get her to
the airport in time to get all the baby gear thru security. Since I
can’t post any office pictures, here’s a picture of a [nesting
hawk](http://s3.amazonaws.com/devhawk_images/Flahawk.JPG) my friend (and
hoster) Tom emailed me.
