Today marks the start of the 2009 [Space Elevator
Conference](http://www.spaceelevatorconference.org/) on the Microsoft
campus. Last night, my father and I attended a free overview
presentation on space elevators. My father is a huge sci-fi fan and has
read many of Arthur C. Clarke’s books include [The Fountains of
Paradise](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fountains_of_Paradise) so he
was very excited for this opportunity. Unfortunately, while the idea of
a space elevator is pretty exciting, the presentation itself left quite
a bit to be desired.

[![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ee/Space_elevator_structural_diagram.svg/240px-Space_elevator_structural_diagram.svg.png)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_elevator) For
the un-initiated, a [space
elevator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_elevator) is just what it
sounds like – an elevator into space. Chemical rockets are horribly
inefficient, so instead the idea is to run a cable way out into space.
According to Wikipedia, a space elevator would be a couple of orders of
magnitude cheaper for getting things into space than chemical rocketry.

Of course, actually building a space elevator would have a massive up
front cost and an engineering effort that would dwarf even the effort
that [landed mankind on the moon.](http://www.wechoosethemoon.com/) One
of the biggest problems is substance the cable itself is build out of.
This cable would be thousands of kilometers long, and would have to be
extremely strong. Frankly, there’s no feasible material to make the
cable from available to us today. Apparently, making a cable strong
enough out of the strongest high tensile steel available today would
weigh more than the entire universe! Not exactly feasible. But
advancements in [carbon
nanotubes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_nanotube) have scientists
believing they might be able to make materials 100x stronger than high
tensile steel. If that pans out, it would be feasible to build the space
elevator cable from carbon nanotubes.

Another big issue is power for the climbers. Current thinking apparently
is to beam power to the climbers via megawatt lasers – an idea that like
carbon nanotubes would have far reaching impact on our society over and
above space elevators. The idea of “beaming power” sounds nearly as
fantastic as the space elevator itself, but apparently there’s an
[X-Prize style competition](http://www.spaceward.org/elevator2010-pb)
underway with a cool \$2 million in prize money if you can build a beam
powered climber that travel 5 meters/second.

While the idea of a space elevator is very fascinating and I was excited
to spend an evening with my dad geeking out in a non-software related
field, the presentation itself was kinda crappy. I have no doubt that
Dr. Bryan Laubscher, who delivered the presentation, is one of the top
minds in space elevator theory and technology in the world today.
However, his presentation was bullet-point laden, rambling, incoherent
at times and frankly boring.

For example, I get the feeling that Dr. Laubscher spends a lot of time
defending the idea of a space elevator to skeptical NASA scientists. He
spent WAY too much time talking about how inefficient chemical rockets
are – I mean, mention it once but don’t keep coming back to that point
over and over. He also went off on a strange tangent about the potential
for societal decline when we turn our back on exploration. But he wasn’t
presenting to skeptical NASA scientist last night – he was presenting to
group of enthusiastic amateurs. If you can’t tailor your presentation to
your audience, there’s no way you’re going to be effective.

While the presentation could have been better, it still had some
fascinating information. For example, there would probably have to be
multiple space elevators – Dr. Laubscher estimated there would be five.
It’s much more efficient to have the space elevator be one way so you
need at least two – one to have one to go up and one to go down. I never
considered the idea of multiple space elevators before.

Apparently, last year’s Space Elevator Conference was on the Microsoft
Campus and I wouldn’t be surprised if next year’s was as well. I hope it
will be. I’d like to attend more of the conference. Saturday is Space
Elevator 101 day at the conference but I’m driving my parents to the
airport. In the meantime, there are some space elevator
[blogs](http://www.spaceelevatorblog.com/) to
[follow](http://blog.spaceelevator.com/). Also, I met the president of
the [LiftPort Group](http://www.liftport.com/) which is headquartered in
Seattle, so maybe I’ll get a chance to talk to him one-on-one sometime
after the conference is over.

And I should probably read [The Fountains of
Paradise](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fountains_of_Paradise) while
I’m at it.
