I finally have my busted laptop back. I paved it and was in the process
of reinstalling the important stuff when the storm hit. Since I’ll be
moving back to that machine very soon, I figured I could break
quarantine on the machine I’m currently using. Since the one thing you
can’t run in [Virtual PC](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/virtualpc/)
is the embedded device emulator, I decided to install [Windows
CE](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/embedded/ce.net/). I stumbled
across this article for [DIY Wireless Access
Points](http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/wireless/excerpt/wireless_hacks/index1.html)
(from [Wireless
Hacks](http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/wirelesshks/index.html?CMP=IL7015))
which pointed me to a couple of embedded system vendors –
[Soekris](http://www.soekris.com/) and
[OpenBrick](http://www.openbrick.org/). I’d love to get CE up and
running on one of those boxes and roll my own [media client
device](http://www.microsoft.com/Windows/Embedded/devices/ces/default.asp),
to learn about hacking embedded if for no other reason. I know Duncan
has a cool [homegrown audio PC
project](http://www.duncanmackenzie.net/musicxp/), but I was thinking
something embedded would be even cooler.

There doesn’t seem to be much, if any, grass-roots community around
building CE based devices. All the efforts on the embedded website seem
to be geared towards large companies. For example, the [US
distributors](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/embedded/ce.net/howtobuy/purchasing/na.asp)
of CE don’t list prices on their pages. I can only assume it’s a case of
“if you have to ask, you can’t afford it”, at least for the individual
developer. CE is not included in MSDN (though it used to be if memory
serves). I can only find info on homebrew embedded hardware on [Linux
sites](http://www.linuxdevices.com/index.html).

Where are there any other DIY or homebrew embedded sites that I don’t
know about?
