::: image-right
[![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/20100517-0958-washington-stealth-lacrosse/wa_stealth_logo.png)](http://www.stealthlax.com/) 
:::

Last Saturday night, my family and I went with some friends from the
neighborhood up to Everett to catch the [Washington
Stealth](http://www.stealthlax.com/) in the [National Lacrosse
League](http://www.nll.com) Champion’s Cup final. This was my first
indoor lacrosse game, and it was a
[doozy](http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/othersports/2011876936_stealth16.html)
– the Stealth were down four goals with a a minute to go in the third
quarter, but scored eight goals in a row to take the Champions Cup
15-11. After watching my Capitals
[collapse](http://sports.espn.go.com/nhl/playoffs/2010/columns/story?columnist=burnside_scott&id=5146185)
in the NHL playoffs, it was awesome to see the home team come out on
top.

(Side Note, at least the Caps aren’t alone when it comes to embarrassing
playoff performances this year. Boston [blew a 3-0 series
lead](http://espn.go.com/nhl/playoffs/2010/matchup/_/teams/bruins-flyers)
against Philly and Pittsburg blew a 3-2 series lead against Montreal
*and* [got beat like a
drum](http://espn.go.com/nhl/recap?gameId=300512016) in game 7. I’d
argue that the Caps performance was still the most embarrassing of the
three, but not by much)

::: image-left
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/20100517-0958-washington-stealth-lacrosse/NLLLogo.png) 
:::
As I said, this was my first indoor lacrosse game. The game is basically
ice hockey without the ice. In fact, the Stealth’s advertising slogan
this year was “It’s like hockey…with balls”. [^1] As far as I could tell,
the playing area is identical to a hockey rink except for the no ice
thing. Benches, boards, penalty boxes, goal position – all the same.
There are five players + a goalie per side, with lots of line changes
and plenty of hitting. I might not have been to a game before, but I was
able to pick up the basics of strategy and rules just based on the
similarity to hockey.

Since it’s so similar to hockey, it’s probably easier to talk about the
things that are different – like the shot clock. Similar to basketball,
in indoor lacrosse you have a limited amount of time to take a shot or
else you lose possession. Maintaining possession in lacrosse seems
easier than in does in hockey, so the shot clock is an important
addition. Otherwise, killing penalties and running out the clock with a
lead would be child’s play once you got possession. But with the shot
clock, you can only chew up thirty seconds at a time.

The combination of the basketball-esque shot clock and hockey-esque line
changes creates for an interesting dynamic, but not always positive. I
was expecting there to be more fast breaks, But instead, unless it’s a
clear one-on-none or two-on-one, the breaking player almost always pulls
up and waits for the line change to finish – often going off himself.
There are line changes in hockey, but it’s rare for a guy in the
offensive zone to be able to just hold onto the puck and wait for the
rest of the team to line change.

On the other hand, I really liked how indoor lacrosse doesn’t have
constant face-offs like hockey does. Face offs in indoor lacrosse are
only to start quarters and after goals. Otherwise, when the ball goes
out of play or there’s a penalty, there are simple possession rules to
determine who gets the ball. Face-offs are exciting, and they happen
often enough given the amount of scoring in indoor lacrosse (26 goals
total Sat. night, which was close to the season average for the Stealth
of 24.375 total goals scored per game) without being overwhelming (there
were 68 face-offs in yesterday’s Sharks/Hawks game – that’s more than
one per minute).

Of course, having a good game with a come-from-behind victory by the
home team certainly casts the game in the best light. Having a packed
house also helped. 8,600 fans there last night – a sellout – many of
whom appeared to be involved in lacrosse leagues around the Puget Sound
area. The friends we went with have a teenage son who plays, which is
how they got into it. Patrick says he wants to learn to play to, so I’m
guessing this won’t be our last Stealth game.

This being primarily a geek blog, I’ll add that both the Stealth and the
NLL in general need to modernize their marketing and fan base building
efforts. The Stealth website is old school to put it mildly – I
especially like the full screen ad to buy tickets for Saturday’s game
that still pops up, two days after the game. Lacrosse fans claim it’s
the [fastest growing sport in the
nation](http://blog.fortiusone.com/2008/01/24/lacrosse-the-fastest-growing-sport-in-the-country/),
but it gets almost zero media attention. So why not encourage citizen
media by issuing press credentials to fans who blog about the Stealth
like the [Caps did a few years
ago](http://offwing.com/2006/08/guidelines-for-issuing-press-credentials-to-bloggers)?
Selling NLL TV rights for any significant dollars is a pipe dream right
now, so why not stream the games online? I suspect the main revenue
source for NLL teams is ticket sales and merchandise – streaming the
games would be a good way to push both.

[^1]: Cute slogan, but the implication that lacrosse players are tougher
than hockey players is ludicrous. NLL season lasts 16 games and the
playoff are three rounds of single elimination. NHL season lasts 82
games and the playoffs are four rounds of best of seven series.
