Watching the Olympics I’ve seen ads for AT&T’s
[CallVantage](http://www.usa.att.com/callvantage/), a VOIP service
similar to [Vonage](http://www.vonage.com/) and
[Lingo](https://www.lingo.com/guWeb/) (any others?). All three have the
basics – Unlimited calling to US & Canada, voicemail, call
waiting/forwarding, 911 support, caller ID & 3-way calling. However,
each has a feature or two that the others don’t. AT&T has Do Not Disturb
(no big deal) and Personal Conferencing up to nine people (wow!). Vonage
has a soft phone (i.e. an app that acts like a phone so you can call and
receive calls while on the road). Lingo is the cheapest (\$20 a month +
3 free months) and Western Europe is included in the unlimited free
calling area (hello brother-in-law from Germany). I’m leaning towards
Lingo as I don’t need personal conferencing (I organize groups of people
outside my immediate family with email) and when I travel with my
family, I don’t really spend much time online so the soft phone is of
limited use. One issue – checking out [Broadband Reports VOIP
reviews](http://www.broadbandreports.com/isplist?t=voip), [Lingo sounds
like](http://www.broadbandreports.com/reviews/2475) it’s got really
awful tech support. But, with three months free, I’m hoping I can try it
out and cancel it if it’s a problem.

**Update**: I called Lingo and they confirmed they have an activation fee
as well as a 30 day cancellation policy. So while the first three months
are free, you pay \$10 S&H and \$30 to activate. If you cancel the
service in the first 30 days, you can get your \$30 back. And there is
no service contract, so you can cancel anytime (not sure if the other
services require a contract or not).
