Being at TechEd without thousands of things to worry about is somewhat
strange. But I could get used to coming and going as I please, not
tracking down speakers, ordering whiteboards and the rest of the
responsibility that comes with track ownership.

My first session is right after lunch – 1:15 @ Green TLC Theater 4 if
you’re on site. Our Technical Learning Center (aka “the cabana”) is
fairly sparsely attended, at least for the moment. MSIT has never had
this significant a presence at TechEd before, so I wouldn’t be surprised
if the attendees aren’t quite sure what to make of it. I went over to
the Architecture and SOA & Web Services area and ran into quite a few
people I knew. I expect I’ll spend more time down there than in my
cabana.

I skipped the keynote this morning, apparently they did a [Back to the
Future
parody](http://clickanywhere.blogspot.com/2007/06/keynote-address.html).
Had I known, I might have gotten up. But my flight got in at midnight
last night, I didn’t get to the hotel until 1am and an 8:30 keynote on
the east coast feels like a 5:30 keynote to my still jet-lagged system.
Since I skipped it, I’m not sure what was announced, but the [opening
press release
salvo](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2007/jun07/06-04TechED07PR.mspx) mentions
the first CTP of [SQL Server
2008](http://www.microsoft.com/sql/prodinfo/futureversion/default.mspx),
Visual Studio 2008 (aka the Visual Studio version formally known as
“Orcas”) and the [Open XML
SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=AD0B72FB-4A1D-4C52-BDB5-7DD7E816D046&displaylang=en)
among other things. I’ve been hacking some Open XML lately, so I’ll have
to check that last thing out. Apparently, there was some also discussion
of the [Dynamic Systems Initiative](http://www.microsoft.com/dsi), but
in the press release it came across as [Infrastructure
Optimization](http://www.microsoft.com/io). Not sure if those are one in
the same or not.

BTW, for those not attending TechEd, you can check out [Virtual
TechEd](http://www.virtualteched.com) and the [TechEd Virtual
Pressroom](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/events/teched/default.mspx).
Not the same as being here – no conversations, no swag and no roller
coasters. But at least you can keep up on what’s being announced,
presented and spoken about.

I’m off to lunch. Missing the keynotes == missing breakfast. My session
is in about an hour, so I’ll probably post again afterwards. I’m hoping
for more conversation and less presentation, so the only prep I’ve done
is to iron my speaker shirt.
