We’ve had a good family Thanksgiving this year. We flew to northern
Virginia where my parents live on Monday, avoiding the craziness of
traveling the day before Thanksgiving. Patrick is such a good traveler!
Tuesday, we went to the brand new [National Museum of the American
Indian](http://www.nmai.si.edu/) with two of my mother’s first cousins
and her aunt (I think – hard to keep these family relations straight
sometimes). It was great having that part of the family around – I
hadn’t seen them since my grandfather passed away back in high school.
They were also over for Thanksgiving today, which was fascinating
listening to stories of my grandfather’s family as well as their world
travels. For example, they recently visited the River Kwai and learned
of its history – let’s just say it’s nothing like the
[movie](http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0050212/).

I’ve also seen a bunch of old friends who still live here or flew in to
be with family who live here. Last night, Jules made enchiladas en mas
for the family and for our good friends John and Barbara and their
daughter Elizabeth. John works for a defense contractor these days and
Barbara is a stay at home mom. (I hate that term, but I don’t know how
else to put it. Moms work hard – they don’t just “stay home”) Rich and
Jess, who are in from San Francisco, also stopped by. Rich is a
marketing expert and also covers the SF Giants for the newspaper. Today,
we had breakfast with Rich and Jess plus Dave and Heather and their son
Ethan. I didn’t really know Dave growing up – more of a friend of a
friend who I got to know after high school. Dave has worked at the White
House since sometime in Clinton’s first term. Rich wore his “Free
Martha” t-shirt for the occasion. He also pointed out that Mary Cheney –
yes, that [Mary
Cheney](http://www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/columnists/tmoran/tm17.htm)
– graduated from my [high school](http://www.fcps.k12.va.us/McLeanHS/) a
year behind me. It’s a small world.

We’re here thru the middle of next week – I almost always get to the end
of the year with vacation to use or lose. I can’t stand traveling the
day before Thanksgiving or shopping the day after, so I’m probably going
to hang out with my brother while Jules and my mother and my great aunt
go shopping. Dad has to work – which seems ludicrous since how much is
really going to get done the day after Thanksgiving? Maybe he’ll find
time to [blog](http://halpierson.blogspot.com/). Next week is more
hanging out, though I am taking the time to visit a customer before I
head back to the grind.
