::: image-left
[![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog//nationalchamps.jpg)](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/bowls04/columns/story?columnist=maisel_ivan&id=1959309) 
:::

I was on vacation without access to the ‘net most of last week, so I
didn’t get to immediately blog the USC’s utter dominance in the [Orange
Bowl](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/recap?gameId=250040030) last
Tuesday. I got to watch the game with several college buddies (the
benefit of vacationing in LA) and we just had a ball. After the
bittersweet shared championship last year, this feels great. Who would
have thought it would be over at halftime? I called it “in the
refrigerator” 4 minutes into the third when SC went up 45-10. I would
have called it at half time, but I figured OU would come out with some
life in the second half, but they didn’t.

::: image-right
[![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog//undisputed.jpg)](http://www.uscbookstore.com/index.php?cPath=22013) 
:::

While I am glad about many things about this season, I am most glad that the
Orange Bowl rout leaves the title undisputed. Even the most die-hard
Auburn fan, having watched their team nearly blow the Sugar Bowl the
night before, has got to be hard pressed to honestly argue that they
deserve to be \#1. Especially when they think to the last time they
played USC – they got [shutout at home
23-0](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/boxscore?gameId=232420002). Sure,
Auburn isn’t the same team but then again, neither is USC.

There’s already talk of USC being a
[dynasty](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/bowls04/columns/story?columnist=maisel_ivan&id=1959543)
and of a threepeat (or should that be three-Pete?) Frankly, that talk is
a little premature in my opinion. But given the massive drought USC
football went through when I was in school there (during the decade long
plus losing streak to Notre Dame) it sure is nice to be on top.
