I like the [del.icio.us Buttons for
IE](http://del.icio.us/help/ie/extension) but they don’t work as well
with IE7. Or more to the point, IE7 has changed the interface model on
del.icio.us. Hopefully, ~~del.icio.us~~ Yahoo! will update the buttons
sometime soon.

Basically, IE supports a variety of extensions. On such extension
mechanism is a “Browser Extension” (catchy, ain’t it). While I’m sure
there are other aspects to Browser Extensions, it puts a button on IE’s
main toolbar. An example of a browser extension that I use is [Password
Scrambler](http://www.onepassword.com/). del.icio.us, in comparison,
creates a toolbar with two buttons – one brings up the [link post
page](http://del.icio.us/post) while the other is a dropdown menu that
brings you to various places within del.icio.us. Frankly, I only use the
link post button.

The issue is that in IE7, they’ve moved around the main toolbar. Under
IE6, I would position the del.icio.us toolbar right after the main
toolbar. So it worked out great. Now, in IE7, the main toolbar is now to
the right of the tabs. By default, the browser extension buttons aren’t
visible, but they are available on the Tools drop down menu. So I don’t
have one click access to the Password Scrambler any more, but I do have
all those extra commands grouped together. But since del.icio.us has
it’s own toolbar, there’s no place really to put it that doesn’t take up
screen space. It can’t go on the command bar with the address box and
the search box. It can’t go on the command bar with the tabs and the
main menu. The only alternative is to have it on a bar by itself, which
is a waste of space. Esp. since I only care about the link post button,
which would fit nicely on IE7′s new Tools menu.

I investigated what it would take to do it myself, and frankly I’m
slammed with much more important things to do. At least, more relevant
to my day job. Anyone with a good suggestion here, I’d sure appreciate
it.

**Update** – According to a comment left by
[britta](http://blog.del.icio.us/), the del.icio.us buttons IE7 ready
yet and they suggest using [these
buttons](http://del.icio.us/help/buttons) in the meantime. Thanks for
the tip, britta!
