(Quick reminder, this is my *personal* blog. Standard
[disclaimer](http://devhawk.net/default.aspx#disclaimer) applies.)

I’m guessing the [White House Correspondents’
Association](http://www.whca.net/) didn’t run their choice of dinner
entertainment past the actual White House. Last year, Stephen Colbert
had [this hilarious bit](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FT5d4vdNK5s) on
Laura Bush’s “after hours” show @ last year’s dinner.

I wonder who thought “Let’s get the guy that made the joke about
President Bush bathing in a bucket of horse semen last year to appear at
this year’s Correspondent’s dinner.” Actually, I don’t have to wonder.
It was Mark Smith from AP Radio, the President of WHCA, who admitted to
being responsible for signing Colbert while introducing him Saturday
night. This guy considered “[Colbert: AP is America’s \#1
threat](http://msnbc.msn.com/id/10826561)” a “pit-in-my-stomach,
career-in-flames moment”. I’m guessing he’s in full barf-o-rama mode
after [Colbert’s stunning
performance](http://www.dailykos.com/storyonly/2006/4/30/1441/59811).
This administration isn’t exactly known for forgiving and forgetting. I
wouldn’t be surprised if Mark Smith could get to the White House in the
future was the [online tour](http://www.whitehouse.gov/history/whtour/).

You can get the
[transcript](http://www.dailykos.com/storyonly/2006/4/30/1441/59811)
from [Daily Kos](http://www.dailykos.com/) and the
[video](http://www.leahys.net/blog/?p=113) from [Vast Moderate
Conspiracy](http://www.vastmoderateconspiracy.com/). The video is also
up on YouTube (in parts). Check out [Thank You Stephen
Colbert](http://thankyoustephencolbert.org/) for links. And while you’re
there, you can join the nearly 14,000 people who have said thanks in
just under 24 hours.
