Sorry it’s been so quiet around here. And I just had a meeting with a
few days ago with [Sara Williams](http://blogs.msdn.com/saraw/) where we
talked, among many other things, about the need to blog regularly…

I’ve been heads down on final [TechEd](http://www.microsoft.com/teched)
prep. I’m fairly certain that I’m the only track owner who is also
presenting. I know I’m the only track owner who is also doing a track
general session. If you keep a close eye on the list of
[breakouts](http://www.msteched.com/content/breakouts.aspx), you’ll
notice that I’m not only presenting ARC 402 (Data in SOA) but I’m now
also presenting ARC 300 (Metropolis). Unfortunately,
[Pat](http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland) had to cancel his trip to TechEd
at the last minute for personal reasons. So, in addition to all the
normal last-minute billion details that a track owner has to deal with
(most of which would have slipped thru the cracks with out the help of
my trusty cabana cohorts Ed and Richard – thanks guys!), I’m also
putting the finishing touches on my own session and having to prepare to
do Pat’s. I’ve presented Metropolis many times before, most recently
last week at the [P&P Summit](http://www.pnpsummit.com/), so presenting
ARC 300 isn’t a huge deal. However, we did have to cancel ARC 303 and
are still figuring out if we can cover ARC 302. I’m bummed about that,
but we’re going to try and get that material recorded at [TechEd
Europe](http://www.microsoft.com/europe/teched/) next month for
inclusion in the [Architecture Strategy
Series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series/).

Even without ARC 302 & 303, we still have a great track. One thing we
really tried to do is cover all categories of architecture. Most of our
track covers application / solution architecture, but we also have
several sessions on infrastructure architecture. I’m really looking
forward to ARC 404 – Managing SOA Using Existing Platforms. We had a bit
of a crisis on this session a few weeks ago, but we took care of it and
the session looks great. I’m guessing lots of people will be interested
in “how Microsoft is internally managing Services using current
Microsoft technologies”. ARC 304 (Bridging the Gap) and ARC 403 (Defense
in Depth) also cover infrastructure architecture and should be really
good. We’re also have a session on Business Architecture. ARC 301
(Service Oriented Business Architecture). It’s really interesting to
think about how SOA is going to affect the business as well as the
application architecture.

See you in San Diego!

**Update**: for ARC 302, we’re going to have a Metropolis Discussion
where we can talk about the Metropolis overview as well as drill down on
how applications learn and how data interoperates (i.e. the combined
contents of the original ARC 302 & 303 talks). I’ll be moderating and
several members of my team will be on hand, but we’re hoping to listen
as much as if not more than we talk.
