Among my other duties, I am co-ower of the [architecture
track](http://www.msteched.com/content/tracks.aspx#a7c12aff-c193-4de3-977c-a8623c7acbe3)
at this year’s [TechEd](http://www.microsoft.com/teched). We’ve got a
great track lined up, including two new sessions from [Pat
Helland](http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland) in his Metropolis series. You
can see an earlier version of the original Metropolis session as part of
the [Architecture Strategy
Series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series/) or read
an
[article](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnmaj/html/aj2metrop.asp)
about Metropolis in the latest
[JOURNAL](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal). I’m
presenting a session on information architecture (guess I gotta get the
slides done soon!). Plus there are 15 other great sessions to see on
architecture. We’re also running two precon’s on architecture : One on
*[patterns and
practices](http://www.msteched.com/content/precons.aspx#PRC003)* (run by
[Keith Pleas](http://weblogs.asp.net/kpleas/), my recent
partner-in-crime on [.NET
Rocks](http://www.franklins.net/fnetdotnetrocks/dotnetrocks.aspx?showid=61))
and one on [identity
management](http://www.msteched.com/content/precons.aspx#PRC012).

After the precons on Sunday night, we’re having a party – the [Architect
Road Rally](http://www.dynamicevents.com/ArchitectRoadRally.asp) @ the
[San Diego Auto Museum](http://www.sdautomuseum.org/). Party goers get a
close up look at the [history of
Porshe](http://www.sdautomuseum.org/exhibit.html), race RC cars and play
the new [Rallisport Challenge
2](http://www.xbox.com/en-us/rallisportchallenge2) on Xbox. We’re also
giving away some RC cars as well as copies of RSC2. Plus, food & beer
all evening (i.e. this is not an hor’dourves party). So please
[register](http://www.dynamicevents.com/ArchitectRoadRally.asp) and come
have a good time.

Finally, we’re also planning on running focus groups @ TechEd – your
chance to help us help you better with architecture. Also, people chosen
to participate in the focus groups get something Cool.
[Register](http://www.dynamicevents.com/ArchitectRoadRally.asp) for the
focus groups when you register for the road rally.

See you in San Diego!

**Update**: this post actually hasn’t been updated, I just deleted the
original and crossposted from [my main blog](http://devhawk.net).
