On Monday, I primarily talked to customers and partners. Yesterday, I
spent most of my time talking to other Microsofties that I hadn’t seen
or spoken to in a while. For example, [Tim
Mallalieu](http://blogs.msdn.com/timmall/) was there talking about the
Entity Data Model. I worked with Tim a few years back – I did his first
interview when he came to Microsoft. We didn’t talk much EDM, but it
sure was good to see him.

I finally met [Gareth Jones](http://blogs.msdn.com/garethj/) in person.
Gareth – along with [Steve](http://blogs.msdn.com/stevecook),
[Stuart](http://blogs.msdn.com/stuart_kent/) and
[Alan](http://blogs.msdn.com/alan_cameron_wills) – have a [new book
out](http://www.domainspecificdevelopment.com/) on the DSL toolkit.
Neither stealing nor cajoling worked, I’ll have to go get my own copy or
[read it on Safari](http://safari.informit.com/9780321398208). Gareth
and I talked a while about language evolution – how DSLs come to be. One
of the subjects we talked about was [internal
DSLs](http://devhawk.net/2007/02/20/internal-dsls-in-powershell/) -
I’ll be interested in Gareth’s non-immediate reaction. Gareth also
[blogged](http://blogs.msdn.com/garethj/archive/2007/06/05/teched-day-one-visual-studio-2008-shell.aspx)
yesterday about a TechEd announcement that I had missed: [VS 2008
Shell](http://blogs.msdn.com/vsxteam/archive/2007/06/05/Announcing-the-Visual-Studio-2008-Shell.aspx).

I also spent a long time talking to various members of the DLR team.
There seems to be quite a [stir
brewing](http://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/RubyMicrosoft.html) about how
the Ruby and Microsoft community can / will come together. I will wisely
keep my opinions to myself – I’m already in the [REST/SOAP
fray](http://devhawk.net/2007/06/05/a-rest-question/), no need to
join another – though I will say that it’s encouraging to [hear the
call](http://ola-bini.blogspot.com/2007/06/there-can-be-only-one-tale-about-ruby.html)
for “a good, complete [Ruby language] specification” in order to support
multiple implementations.
