Last weekend, I finally got around to picking up an [Xbox
360](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/hardware/xbox360/). Things have been a
little busy this week so I haven’t had a ton of time to play it. I
bought
[Oblivion](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/theelderscrollsIVoblivion/)
and [Kameo](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/kameo), but have spent most
of my time playing [Xbox Live
Arcade](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/livearcadexbox360). Seems sort
of stupid to shell out \$400 to play
[Hexic](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/hexichdlivearcadexbox360/) and
[UNO](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/unolivearcadexbox360/), but it
actually a compelling experience for a number of reasons. First off,
they’re games you can play for 10-15 minutes at a time. Playing Oblivion
for 15 minutes is pointless, but it’s perfect for a Live Arcade game.
With two kids, 15 minutes of play time is much more common than 2 hours.
Second, you don’t have to get up to put in a game disc. Sure it’s lazy,
but aren’t we all lazy sometimes? Third, I can play them in front of my
kids. Fourth, they’re cheap and easy to download on [Xbox Live
Marketplace](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/live/marketplace/).

Marketplace is a thing of genius. My son Patrick’s favorite is the [Cars
movie](http://disney.go.com/disneypictures/cars/) trailer in HD. Being
able to download demos is awesome, rather than keeping track of the
discs that come with [OXM](http://www.officialxboxmagazine.com/). For
example, I’ve downloaded every racing game demo there is so Patrick can
play them. He hasn’t got the hang of it yet (he is only three) but since
it’s a demo it doesn’t matter. He doesn’t care that he keeps racing the
same car on the same track. (He did see the new [Cars
game](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/c/cars) at Blockbuster the other
day, but it’s for the original Xbox and not on the [back
compat](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/backwardcompatibilitygameslist.htm)
list.)

Finally, the ability to play music and look at pictures from a standard
XP machine is pretty cool. The User Experience for lots of photos and
music isn’t great, but the end result is worth it. My wife quipped “I
could watch this all night” as we looked at a slide show of photos we’ve
taken over the past three years while listening to some of custom tunes.
I don’t have a Media Center as I’ve been waiting for HD cable support.
However, I know the MCE experience for navigating thousands of songs and
photos is much better than Xbox 360’s, so I might make the switch early.
Plus, I would also get support for remote video viewing – something Xbox
360 doesn’t support for reasons that escape me.

All in all, I’m really digging the Xbox 360. Only downside is not enough
time to play.
