Is it to early to start making predictions about 2010, 2012 and beyond
yet? Probably, but I’ve got a few thoughts anyway.

First, if Obama runs his presidency like he ran his candidacy, he’ll be
a great president and will win reelection in a cakewalk. Obviously,
there are *huge* challenges ahead, but I have faith his administration
will be able to handle them.

Second, assuming prediction \#1 pans out, we’ll see another wide open
race in 2016. I’m a big Joe Biden fan, but he’ll be 74 in 2016 – two
years older than McCain is now. No way he runs. Hillary Clinton will 69
so I don’t see her running either. Well, maybe they run but I doubt
they’d win the nomination. I’m guessing the Democratic nominee in 2016
will be someone who’s not top of mind today – someone who emerges in the
next two or four years as “the next Obama”.

Third, we haven’t seen the last of Sarah Palin. I’ve been extremely
critical of her, but my libertarian friend recommended I not
underestimate her. So I won’t. I think she’ll be the Republican nominee
for president in 2016. I know folks are talking about her for 2012, but
I think she’d rather take her chances in a wide open race in 2016 than
go up against Obama a second time. She’s only 44 now, so she’ll be 52 in
2016 – about perfect for a presidential candidate. Eight years is a long
time for her to close the unqualified gap.

In fact, I’d say Ted Stevens [apparent
reelection](http://www.cnn.com/ELECTION/2008/results/individual/#mapSAK)
is a likely silver lining in otherwise crappy election for the
Republicans. Ted Stevens was [found guilty on felony corruption
charges](http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/washington/AP-StevensTrial.html?_r=1&oref=slogin)
and faces [expulsion from the
senate](http://www.rollcall.com/news/29690-1.html), regardless of his
apparent victory yesterday. If he is expelled, there would be [a special
election](http://www.adn.com/ted-stevens/story/569836.html) to decide
his successor. You have to assume Mark Begich, Stevens’ Democratic
challenger, would handily win that special election. But what if Palin
ran against Begich? She’s taken a hit it her approval ratings since
joining the VP ticket, but she’s still very popular in Alaska and
probably liked best by Stevens’ supporters. I’m not saying it’s a
shoo-in, but I believe she’d have a very good chance to win a special
election.

Being a senator for eight years would be long enough to shore up the
concerns about her qualifications but short enough not to have much of
an attackable voting record. She’d have to win reelection in 2014, but
given that Stevens has won seven elections in a row dating back to 1970,
I’m guessing getting reelected in 2014 would be no problem.

So my predictions are a fairly easy Obama reelection in 2012, followed
by Sen Palin (R) vs. “The Next Obama” (D) in 2016. Midterms in 2010 will
probably see Dems give back some of their recent gains, but not enough
to lose control of either house of Congress. 2014 is to far out to
predict, much less who wins in 2016. But looking at voting trends among
minorities, party ID advantages, etc, I like Democrats chances for the
foreseeable future.

Finally, I wonder if this is the “[end of identity
politics](http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/andrew_sullivan/article5013891.ece)”
as some have suggested. One election is not a trend, so I tend to think
that Obama was immune to such attacks more than those attacks no longer
viable. We may need to wait until 2016 to find out. When Palin does run
again, will she still be a pitbull with lipstick? I like to think
identity politics is toast, but I’m guessing the Republicans will go
back to that well a few more times before giving up on it. Democrats, on
the other hand, have all the proof they need that they can win against
identity politics: President-Elect Obama.
