While my blog was down, Microsoft launched the [Xbox
360](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/hardware/xbox360/) with significant
fanfare and dramatic demand. Of course, a month later the Xbox 360 is
still [sold out](http://bensbargains.net/xbox360/xbox360.php) pretty
much every where you go. I remember I got
able to find an original Xbox before Christmas back in 2001 so either
the demand is much higher or the supply is much lower (probably both). I’ve personally decided to
wait on getting a 360 – I’m way behind on original Xbox games and
my [two
kids](http://storage.msn.com/x1pFeqfYuS6GVACJn9mvD1nrS9Ut2YqkWWLeyDj-jjA1Vlz-sbk7qMMCGGYMaLCUAbJtUaD0FbymyD_HYC7NdAPWETpzHTA7PzW9zlvfjQYbDGu0c2PO2PpW8hz2FarO0oH)
don’t leave much playtime anyway. But I’m certainly in the minority on
this one.

Anyway, at the height of the frenzy a couple days after launch, [John
Porcaro](http://www.johnporcaro.com/) wrote what I thought was [an
amazing post](http://www.johnporcaro.com/2005/11/index.html) about the
difficulties of marketing a product like Xbox 360. I mean, we’re all
acutely aware of the technical challenges of designing a hardware
product like Xbox 360 or a software service like Xbox Live. Maybe that
time in marketing rotted my brain, but the challenge John describes is
significant.

Furthermore, I think John really lays it out there in his post. It may
not have been good news (i.e. Xbox 360 shortages for the near-term
future) but it was open and forthright about where Microsoft is with the
Xbox 360 and how Microsoft wants Xbox to grow.

(Note: AFAIK, I am not getting a free Xbox 360 from John for writing
this.)
