::: image-right
[![Michael K. Lee as
Tommy](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/20070509-that-deaf-dumb-and-blind-kid-sure-plays-a-mean-pinball/TOMMY_pre-press_3.jpg)](http://www.villagetheatre.org/mainstage_tommy07.shtml)
:::

Last night, I got to see the final dress rehearsal of [The Who’s
TOMMY](http://www.villagetheatre.org/mainstage_tommy07.shtml) at the
[Village Theater](http://www.villagetheatre.org) in Issaquah. My
mother-in-law got a couple of free passes because she’s working with the
director on a separate project. There was no way to get a babysitter on
such short notice, so that meant either
[Jules](http://techiewife.spaces.msn.com/) or I got to go. She’s not as
big a Who fan as I am plus the theater is five minutes from my office,
so I got to go.

Most people who know the show have either heard the
[album](http://www.rhapsody.com/thewho/tommy), seen the
[movie](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0073812/) or both. Pete Townsend
[adapted it for
Broadway](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tommy_%28rock_opera%29#1993_stage_version)
in the early 90′s and I got to see it as it came through Washington DC
on it’s way to New York. Suffice to say that the movie is *very*
different from the stage show. It’s so different that the Village
Theater
[specifically](http://www.villagetheatre.org/Downloads/mainstage/prod-guides/tommy-pg.doc)
“does not recommend the film for previewing to gain an understanding of
the stage version.”

If I had to pick, I like movie version more than the stage version. The
[stage arrangement of the
music](http://www.rhapsody.com/petetownshend/thewhostommy) is
orchestral, which I feels waters down the power of the music. This is
most obvious on [Eyesight to the
Blind](http://play.rhapsody.com/thewho/tommy/eyesighttotheblindthehawker)
which was performed in the movie by Eric Clapton. The [orchestral
arrangement](http://play.rhapsody.com/petetownshend/thewhostommy/eyesighttotheblindreprise)
is barely recognizable as the same song in my opinion. The stage version
also adds a new song – [I Believe My Own
Eyes](http://play.rhapsody.com/petetownshend/thewhostommy/ibelievemyowneyes)
– which I don’t very much.

However, if you look at it on it’s own, The Who’s TOMMY is a good show.
It’s over the top, but for this show that works. Tommy’s journey from
“[deaf, dumb and blind
kid](http://www.thewho.net/discography/songs/PinballWizard.html)” to
“[new
Messiah](http://www.thewho.net/discography/songs/SallySimpson.html)” is
even more appropriate today than it was in 1993 when the Broadway
version premiered. At the time, Townsend got a lot of flak for the
changes the show, but as [he
said](http://www.thewho.net/articles/townshen/pt_96.htm) “what’s
actually changed is the times”.

While the show itself is over the top, this production is even more so.
To quote from the flyer (which I can’t find online) everything is in
nearly constant motion. Actors, set pieces and a huge video screen that
dominates the stage. Again, given the show, it works. The cast was good
– Michael Lee (pictured above) as Tommy was a particular stand out.
There were a few rough spots in the large chorus numbers, but that’s to
be expected in a dress rehearsal, right?

Bottom line, it’s a good show so if you live within driving distance of
Issaquah, you should check it out. If you’re already Who fan, just be
aware that it’s not supposed to be just like the movie…
