::: image-right
[![Patrick and Santa](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/PC110166_thumbnail.JPG)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/PC110166.JPG)
:::

My son (pictured with Santa) finally fell asleep for his first Christmas
Eve. Of course, I read him [‘Twas the Night Before
Christmas](http://www.night.net/christmas/twas-the-night.html) before
bedtime. He was pretty worked up because we have quite a crowd in town.
My parents, brother and great aunt all arrived today. That makes eight
with my wife, my son, my mother-in-law (who just moved up a few months
ago) and me. Add the tree and all the presents and you get a very
excited little boy. Plus we’re going to Victoria to see my uncles the
day after Christmas.

With so many people in town plus it being my son’s first Christmas, we
have a ton of presents under the tree. My wife’s immediate thought was
of the kids all over the world who don’t get the presents (or the
opportunities) that we do. It’s been an amazing year for me, from the
birth of my son to my new job and getting published.  I can only hope I
am lucky enough to have as good year next year as I had this past year.
In addition to the usual resolutions to clean out the garage and lose
weight (though I have a [role
model](http://technovangelist.com/blogs/default.aspx?date=12/05/03) on
that one), I want to do more in 2004 to share this happiness and
prosperity with those less fortunate.

Have a happy holiday season and good luck to you, dear reader, for the
year ahead.
