I’ve done a lot of different jobs in my 15+ years at Microsoft. All of
them have been development related in one way or another. Development
consulting, developer evangelism, architecture evangelism, IT architect,
etc. For the past six years, I’ve been a program manager for a developer
related technology – first for
[IronPython](http://devhawk.net/2008/03/11/joining-the-dynamic-languages-team/)
and later for [Windows
Runtime](http://devhawk.net/2009/10/26/joining-windows/).

It’s been a good run, but I’m taking the opportunity to move from a
“development related” job to just being a pure developer.

I can’t talk much the new gig, other than to say I am working with an
all-star cast of braniacs including the likes of [Joe
Duffy](http://joeduffyblog.com/), [Stephen
Toub](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/toub/), [Adam
Nathan](http://blog.adamnathan.net/) and [Krzysztof
Cwalina](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/kcwalina/). Just the knowledge osmosis
opportunity alone is enough to make my head spin. Luckily, after four
years on the Windows Runtime team, I’m already quite used to working
around a bunch of braniacs – though arguably a less well known in the
community bunch once you get beyond than the unestimable [Larry
Osterman](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/larryosterman/).

As for this blog, I *hope* to be blogging more in the future. No
promises, but certainly I can’t blog much less than I have for the past
several years ([zero posts for all of 2013](http://devhawk.net/2013/) is
kind of depressing). In particular, I’ve been away from production
development for many, many, *many* years so I figure there is lots of
interesting topics to focus on as I make this transition. In particular,
I don’t have a classic “algorithms and data structures” computer science
background. Based on the interview questions I got – all related to
linked lists and binary search trees – I’m guessing this is an area
where I really need to sharpen the saw.

Hope you all have liked the various technology I’ve worked on so far.
Here’s hoping you like what comes next even more.
