Tonight, we went to see my mother-in-law’s new movie [Telephone Pole
Numbering System](http://nwfilmforum.org/telephonepole/) at the
[Northwest Film Forum](http://nwfilmforum.org/). My wife and her mother
are both actors. Julie was a child actor (she was in some of the old
James Garner Polaroid commercials) and her mom was on Days of our Lives
back in the 70s. I have always had a passion for movies and spent
significant time back when I lived in LA writing bad screenplays (not
bad on purpose of course). This movie was mostly OK – it had some very
funny bits but also long stretches that were uninteresting and seemingly
unrelated to the plot. Luckily, all the parts with my mother in law fell
under the “funny bits” category.

While it was cool to see a family member on the big screen, I am really
interested in getting more involved with the NWFF. The organization is a
not-for-profit film arts organization that includes a [two-screen
cinema](http://www.nwfilmforum.org/calendar/) in downtown Seattle,
[production facilities for
rent](http://www.nwfilmforum.org/wigglyworld/), [workshops and
classes](http://www.nwfilmforum.org/wigglyworld/workshops.shtml) plus a
[non-profit film studio](http://www.thefilmcompany.org/) (which produced
Telephone Pole Numbering System). In many ways, this is like community
theater, but for movie making. I got to chat briefly with the film’s
director Bill Weiss, but Patrick was up past his bed time so I’ll need
to make time for a longer chat with these folks soon.

If you could make a movie, what would it be? For me, if we’re talking
pie-in-the-sky, no-real-world-constraints, it would be “Buckaroo Banzai
Against the World Crime League” hands down. (Laugh while you can, monkey
boy)

Favorite Line from Telephone Pole Numbering System:

> “If I was a tree, I’d want to be a telephone pole”\
> “You’re too short”
