Shortly after joining the Architecture Strategy Team, we worked with
MSDN to re-launch the .NET Architecture Center. While we’ve had good
success with that site, we realized after running it for several months
that we needed a new approach in order to engage architects of all
kinds. While Solution Architects are a key audience of ours that is well
served by our MSDN site, there are also enterprise and infrastructure
architects that we want to be able to engage with via the website. For
these audiences, the MSDN site is not really the optimal channel. So
today we’ve launched a new site – the [Architecture Resource
Center](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture) on microsoft.com. We’ve
also re-launched the MSDN site, now called the [MSDN Solution
Architecture Center](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/).

One of the key differences you’ll notice about the sites is that we have
a new way of categorizing our content. Previously, we used a topic based
approach with categories such as service oriented architecture and
application architecture. Now, we have a taxonomy with categories for
[think
ahead](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=think),
[learn
more](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=learn),
[solve
now](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=solve) and
[share
ideas](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=share).
This gives us a new way of differentiating content such as
[Metropolis](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/library.aspx?pid=think.integrate&id=http://www.msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnmaj/html/aj2metrop.asp),
which really is about the future of architecture, from content such as
the [Smart Client Architecture and Design
Guide](http://www.msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/solvenow/solveimpdes/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnpag/html/SCAG.asp),
which really is about solving a specific design problems today. Over
time, as we add both more content as well as more personalization
features, we think this approach will make it much easier for our
customers to find the content they are looking for.

Of course, as “community guy”, I’m most excited about the Share Ideas
section. In addition to a [site wide RSS
feed](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/siterss/), we also have an
[aggregate architecture
blog](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/aggregate.aspx?pid=share.read)
(and [RSS feed](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/blogrss/)) 
featuring both Microsoft architects like myself and [Simon
Guest](http://blogs.msdn.com/smguest) as well as and 3rd party
architects such as Architect MVP’s [Jimmy
Nilsson](http://www.jnsk.se/weblog/) and [Barry
Gervin](http://objectsharp.com/Blogs/barry) as well as Architecture
Advisory Board members [David Ing](http://www.from9till2.com/) and
[Martin Fowler](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/). There’s info on the new
[architecture
certification](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=share.certification),
upcoming [events and
webcasts](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=share.check)
as well as [profiles of my
coworkers](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=share.vision.people)
on the Architecture Strategy Team.

Finally, I’m very excited to announce that JOURNAL is becoming [The
Architecture
Journal](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=journal)
and that you can sign up for a free print subscription to this great
quarterly publication. We saw a huge traffic spike when JOURNAL was
introduced on Architecture Center last spring, so I’m thrilled that that
great content will now be available in print format delivered right to
your home or office! Watch for print copies of the [Best of the
Journal](http://www.microsoft.com/architecture/default.aspx?pid=journal.best.vol1)
issue at TechEd.

Of course, with any new venture, there will be tweaks, hiccups and
improvements. Please leave a comment or [email
me](mailto:hpierson@microsoft.com?subject=Architecture%20Resource%20Center)
with your thoughts, opinions and suggestions on how we can continue to
improve this site to meet the needs of all kinds of architects.
