I wasn’t there, but apparently [Grady
Booch](http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/blogs/dw_blog.jspa?blog=317)
made a comment at [OOPSLA](http://www.oopsla.org/2005) last month that
throwing away models is a good thing.
[Juha-Pekka’s](http://www.metacase.com/blogs/jpt/blogView)[account](http://www.metacase.com/blogs/jpt/blogView?showComments=true&entry=3308396982)
of the [Design and Modern Software Practices
Panel](http://www.oopsla.org/2005/ShowEvent.do?id=304) has Grady saying
“when the project gets closer to the delivery you normally throw away
UML models. This is a natural choice since the efforts needed for
keeping the design – user view, dynamics, behavior, interaction etc. –
linked with the implementation are simply too high.” [Ivan
Moore](http://ivan.truemesh.com/)[has Grady
saying](http://ivan.truemesh.com/archives/000542.html) “I often throw
models away but tend not to throw away the source code.”

I’ve gotta believe that this comment was somehow taken out of context
and that the Grand Poobah of the [Common Semantic
Model](http://devhawk.net/2004/12/10/booch-on-dsls-round-3/) doesn’t
actually believe that tossing the model at the end o the project is a
good thing. If we view these comments thru the lens of [Code is
Model](http://devhawk.net/2005/10/05/code-is-model/), you realize
this is a major violation of the “Models must be Intrinsic to the
Development Process” tenet. Since code is model, it seems silly to throw
out the UML model and keep the code model. The only reason I could think
to do that, is because the UML model has no value.

And this leaves me wondering, exactly how much benefit does Grady Booch
get from his UML model if he’s willing to throw them away near the end
of the project.
