In the past few weeks, there’s been a major uptick in discussion about
Web 2.0 / Enterprise convergence. [Andrew
McAfee](http://blog.hbs.edu/faculty/amcafee) has a [new
article](http://sloanreview.mit.edu/smr/issue/2006/spring/06/) on what
he calls Enterprise 2.0. [Dion’s](http://web2.wsj2.com/) got an [entire
blog](http://blogs.zdnet.com/Hinchcliffe) on the subject, though [he
thinks](http://web2.wsj2.com/democratization_of_content_with_web_20_the_emergent_vs_delib.htm)
it should be called Enterprise Web 2.0. [Nicholas
Carr](http://www.roughtype.com/) is
[skeptical](http://www.roughtype.com/archives/2006/04/is_web_20_enter.php).
Seems to me all this discussion about what *might* happen in this space
is pretty silly since it’s happened already.

Unfortunately, Andrew’s Enterprise 2.0 isn’t freely available (you can
buy a copy of the PDF for \$6.50), but it primarily focuses on the
growing frustration with email and the rise of collaborative Web 2.0
technologies such as blogs and wikis inside the enterprise. No big shock
here – for collaboration, blogs and wikis are to email what word
processors are to typewriters. Andrew also introduces a model he calls
SLATES for describing the aspects of these technologies: Search, Links,
Authorship, Tags, Extensions and Signals. So far, all good stuff.

The problem with the article is that he talks about these technologies
in the future tense. For example, he writes: “As technologists build
Enterprise 2.0 technologies that incorporate the SLATES components”
which implies that these are coming down the pipe rather than here right
now. Not only here right now, but available for going on three years.
I’m talking about SharePoint 2003. 2003 as in “a year before [Tim O’
Reilly coined the term Web
2.0](http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/30/what-is-web-20.html)“.

SharePoint (I’m talking primarily about the [free feature
pack](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/technologies/sharepoint/default.mspx)
for Windows Server 2003 though about the [portal
server](http://www.microsoft.com/office/sharepoint/prodinfo/default.mspx)
as well) supports Search, Links, Authorship and Signals – four of the
six components of Andrew’s Enterprise 2.0 stack. (And frankly, I’m not
sure where Andrew is going w/ his Extensions aspect so four out of five
is probably more accurate.) More importantly, it’s specifically designed
to support what Dion called the [Democratization of
Content](http://web2.wsj2.com/democratization_of_content_with_web_20_the_emergent_vs_delib.htm).
As of December 2004, Microsoft’s internal IT department [was
supporting](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/itsolutions/msit/infowork/spsperfnote.mspx)
“more than 60,000 users, 250 group and division portals, 50,000 team
sites, and manages more than 3 terabytes of information.” Personally, I
use the coportate enterprise intranet portal, my division portal, a
handful of team sites and my personal site on a pretty much daily basis.
Only the enterprise and division portal are centrally managed. Given the
explosion of SharePoint sites inside Microsoft, I’m obviously not alone.

Creating a new SharePoint team site inside Microsoft is totally self
service and takes literally a few seconds. Once you have a site, you can
configure it as you like, creating lists and setting permissions as you
see fit. Again, it’s totally self service. Plus, it’s totally public
unless you specifically lock it down (well, public inside the firewall
at any rate). Of course, it could be easier and better, and that’s what
next versions are for. SharePoint 2007 will have [direct
support](http://blogs.msdn.com/pjhough/archive/2005/09/23/473198.aspx)
for blogs, wikis and RSS. Check out the [C9
video](http://channel9.msdn.com/showpost.aspx?postid=115383) for more
info.

Given the [market
momentum](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/features/2006/jan06/01-20SharePointServices.mspx)
to date and the [impending
release](http://www.microsoft.com/office/preview/default.mspx) of a new
version, I find it very surprising to find Dion, Andrew and Nicholas
discussing the potential ramifications of these technologies without
even mentioning SharePoint. If these guys want to see the Enterprise 2.0
technology in action, all they need to do install SharePoint.
