[Mark Schmidt](http://blogs.msdn.com/markhsch/default.aspx) from the WWF
team built a [nifty little
app](http://blogs.msdn.com/markhsch/archive/2005/09/27/474633.aspx) to
import the NHL hockey schedule into Outlook. So I went to import the
Caps schedule, only to find that the time zones don’t match up. All the
game times are in east coast time and I am on the west coast. I was
going to bug Mark for the code, but decided instead to change my current
timezone to east coast, import the games into Outlook, and then change
my timezone back. It’s a bit of a hack, but it was quicker than changing
the code. Sometimes, simple is better.

Now, I just need [Comcast](http://www.comcast.com/) to get
[HDNet](http://www.hd.net/nhlinhd.html).

**UPDATE**: No word from Concast on getting HDNet. They hope to have
more HD Channels “by the end of the year”. I found a [petition
online](http://www.petitiononline.com/comcast1/petition.html) asking for
HDNet on Comcast and a [blog
entry](http://www.blogmaverick.com/entry/1234000873024786/) from Mark
Cuban (co-owner of HDNet) that compares HDNet vs. InHD to “David vs.
Goliath”. InHD is owned in part, I think, by Comcast. However, Comcast
now owns the broadcast rights to the NHL via their [OLN
network](http://www.olntv.com/nw/article/view/1268/?tf=nwNHLArticle.tpl).
So I’m hoping we’ll eventually see HD NHL on Comcast, thought it sounds
like I have to wait a few months.
![:(](http://devhawk.net/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_sad.gif)
