Sometimes when I blog about politics, I’ll get a [comment like
this](http://devhawk.net/CommentView,guid,d88e8506-d669-41c3-a246-6da1865f9a2e.aspx#commentstart):

> As far as I’m concerned, posting about topics such as politics or
> religions on a blog that’s supposedly about technology is just looking
> for trouble.

As I’ve [pointed out
before](http://devhawk.net/2007/04/03/This+Is+Not+A+Technical+Blog.aspx),
DevHawk is not “a blog that’s supposedly about technology”. It’s a
personal blog – my very tiny corner of the web, if you will – so I feel
totally justified writing about technology, politics, hockey and
whatever else I want to. I figure that if you don’t like it, you’re free
to unsubscribe and neither of either of us will lose any sleep over it.

The flip side is that DevHawk has traditionally been the *only* place
where I exercise such lack-of-restraint. When my blog was featured on
[MSDN Architecture Center](http://msdn2.microsoft.com/architecture), I
cross-posted relevant content to a [separate
blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/devhawk) so as to create an topic-focused
and safe-for-work subset of my “real” blog. It was always a hassle –
especially tracking comments to the same post in two places – and I
[quit doing
it](http://blogs.msdn.com/devhawk/archive/2006/08/21/710966.aspx)
shortly after leaving the Architecture Strategy Team.

However, now that I’m [using Twitter](http://twitter.com/devhawk), it
doesn’t feel like DevHawk is “my *only* place” anymore. My blog == my
writing, my del.icio.us == [links I find
interesting](http://del.icio.us/harrypierson) and my Twitter == [real
time updates](http://twitter.com/devhawk). I use
[FeedBurner](http://www.feedburner.com) to include my del.icio.us links
in my blog feed and [twitterfeed](http://twitterfeed.com/) to include
the blog feed in my twitter feed. Therefore, Twitter is the *only* place
to get [an feed](http://twitter.com/statuses/user_timeline/14137542.rss)
of all three. Obviously, Twitter’s feed isn’t full content, but in an
always connected world, clicking the link to read the blog entry in the
browser isn’t that big a deal. Besides, you can always subscribe to both
the blog and twitter feed if you want full content + real-time.

I haven’t fully integrated Twitter into my daily life yet, though I’m
getting there – for example I [twittered the
results](http://twitter.com/devhawk/statuses/774803604) of my hockey
game last night. But unlike other social software sites, I think I’m
going to be using Twitter regularly. I’m [on
Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/p/Harry_Pierson/537304487), but
there’s too much “you’ve been bitten by a Vampire!” type spam to really
*use* it for anything but pure entertainment. Twitter is more like
blogging, where there’s an information exchange with only the people I
~~subscribe to~~ follow. Also, maybe it’s me, but there doesn’t seem to
be the same stigma if you stop following someone on Twitter compared to
rejecting them as a friend on Facebook.

DevHawk has been “me”, but now it feels like DevHawk @ Twitter will
become “me” which leaves my blog to become my endless book. It’s not a
bad thing, but it does feel a little strange.
