[NHL.com Game
Summary](http://www.nhl.com/scores/htmlreports/20072008/GS020725.HTM) [NHL.com
Game
Recap](http://www2.nhl.com/nhl/app?service=page&page=Recap&gameNumber=725&season=20072008&gameType=2)

It wasn’t a pretty win, but I’ll [take the two
points](http://www.nhl.com/nhl/app?service=page&page=Recap&gameNumber=725&season=20072008&gameType=2)
just all the same. Especially given the long history Washington has of
losing to the Penguins – they had lost the past six meetings before
tonight. Japers’
[roundup](http://japersrink.blogspot.com/2008/01/tuesday-roundupcaps-6-pens-5-so.html)
mirrors my own thoughts, though [On Frozen Blog’s
roundup](http://www.onfrozenblog.com/2008/01/21/mission-possible-trim-the-dinged-up-mullets-move-above-500/)
was funnier – they made a drinking game out of the number of times the
on-air announcers referenced Sid the Kid. Certainly, there’s no [love
lost](http://japersrink.blogspot.com/2008/01/uh-oh.html) for Crosby
among Caps fans, but the amount of on-air time spent discussing an
injured player bordered on ridiculous – Sid the Kid was mentioned 27
times by OFB’s count + five in the post game. Worst was probably
Malkin’s first goal – he hadn’t even stopped celebrating and the
announcer was already talking about Crosby.

Caps were pretty dreadful on special teams tonight. Pens had three goals
on eight penalties while the Caps had only went one for six. However,
the penalty kill came thru in overtime overtime with the Caps down 5-3
for 1:07. The Caps won both defensive zone face offs and blocked four
shots – [Quintin
Laing](http://sports.espn.go.com/nhl/players/profile?playerId=1581) had
three of those blocks – and kept the Pens from registering a shot on
goal for the entire power play. That was money. If they gave out game
stars to unsung heroes, Laing would have gotten one.

For all the great young talent on the Caps, there’s got to be real
concern about goaltending. I love Olie the Goalie, but he didn’t get it
done tonight. The Penguins had a grand total of 15 shots (14 if you
don’t count the one from beyond the blue line with one second left in
overtime). 5 goals on 15 shots == a pretty crappy save percentage.
[Malkin’s](http://sports.espn.go.com/nhl/players/profile?playerId=3124)
first goal was very impressive skating, but he didn’t so much shoot as
throw the puck at the net. And letting Talbot’s  open the scoring by
stuffing the puck in at the post was weak sauce as it were. I’m not so
much worried about it for this season, but with Kolzig [talking
retirement](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/story/2008/01/15/ST2008011504142.html)
as his struggles, I’m not sure who the Caps have in the pipeline between
the pipes. 

It sure was fun getting to watch an entire Caps game in its entirety
with my family. Patrick and Riley watched most of it. Patrick wanted to
know who the bad guys were – he figured it out after I pointed out the
Penguins were wearing black…like Darth Vader.
:smile:
Julie wanted to know how I’d handle it if Patrick grew up to be a
professional hockey player, but was drafted by Pittsburgh. My love for
Paddy Boy far exceeds my hatred for the Penguins, though that’s the only
scenario I could imagine rooting for the Penguins. My boy Patrick,
however, protested and said he wanted be a Capital and play with Alex
the Great. Patrick will be 18 by the time Ovechkin’s contract is over.
It could happen. Guess I gotta teach him to skate!

