It’s interesting to see how consumer and corporate IM have finally
started to evolve in different directions. I have a personal IM account
(harrypierson at hotmail dot com) on MSN running the newly released [MSN
7](http://messenger.msn.com/). I really like the integration with
Spaces, the contact cards and the new Personal Message feature that also
integrates w/ WMP and iTunes to show “what I’m listening to” (in case
you’re curious, baby lullabies – I’m sitting in Patrick’s room as he
goes to sleep). I hadn’t realized how many of my coworkers (primarily
ex-teammates) have started blogs on MSN Spaces.

I also just installed [Office Communicator
2005](http://www.microsoft.com/office/rtc/client.mspx), the new
corporate client for [Live Communications Server
2005](http://www.microsoft.com/office/livecomm/prodinfo/default.mspx).
While we’ve had LCS installed internally for a while, I rarely used it.
I mean, the only real value I saw in corporate IM in general was
security – if your employees are chatting on IM, better to keep it off
the public Internet. But w/ LCS 2005 & new new client, there are several
cool new features. First off, LCS 2005 connects with both AOL and MSN
[public IM
services](http://www.microsoft.com/office/livecomm/prodinfo/publicim.mspx).
So if you want to, add me as an IM contact via my corporate email
address (hpierson at microsoft dot com). Next, LCS 2005 & the new client
integrate with your Exchange calendar. So if you’re in a meeting, you’re
status changes to Busy. I can also hover on a contact and see what
they’re up to now (in a meeting until noon, free until 3:30, etc).
Finally, the new Office Communicator client integrates with PBX systems.
So I can select a conact, hit call, and my desktop phone automatically
calls the person. For incoming calls, I get notification even if I’m not
in my office. So if I’m in a meeting, my wife calls, I can click on the
notification to forward the call to my mobile phone.

Finally, I’m running [Skype](http://www.skype.com/) (callto
harrypierson). I was in Barcelona most of last week and I used the
[SkypeOut service](http://www.skype.com/products/skypeout/) all the
time, except when I was making connections in the Amsterdam airport. I
racked up the big 2 Euros in calls over the course of a week. I seem to
remember MSN IM having support a similar service via Net2Phone, but they
stopped some time ago. I’d probably can Skype if they brought it back. I
don’t want or need three contact points like this. Two is good – one for
work and one for personal – but three is one too many.

If you want to reach me, you have zero excuse! 
