The calm before the storm, as they say…

Things have been quiet around here between new baby & final TechEd prep.
I think we’re in pretty good shape, though we’ll see how we look
tomorrow. One good piece of news is that [Dick
Carlson](http://spaces.msn.com/members/dickcarl/), who manages the
Hands-on Labs, sent out a list of labs either not received or that have
blocking bugs. No ARC track labs on either list. That’s a good sign…

Last night was the track owner dinner at Sea World. Funny, we had a
track owner dinner at Sea World last year in San Diego. Is this a trend?
It was fun to hang out with the other track owners and drink rather than
have to sit around a table and plan. Didn’t get to see Shamu
up-close-and-personal like last year, but we did go ride the Kraken
roller-coaster. Pretty cool, though reminiscent of Batman at Six Flags
in SoCal. One slight bummer – some of us waited extra to ride in the
front, but I was to big for those seats! And it wasn’t a weight problem
(though I could certainly use some work on that front), it was a barrel
chest problem.

Today, my pal [Chris](http://blahgkarma.blogspot.com/) is driving up
from Hobe Sound and we’re going to hang out this afternoon. I used to
see Chris all the time, but then we both switched jobs and he doesn’t
have much chance to come out to the left coast. Last time I saw him was
at an architect forum last spring in Orlando, when again he drove up to
see me. However, I hear there may be a helicopter ride in the cards
today, so I’ll try and keep the “when are you coming to see me for a
change?” grief to a minimum.

I’ve even gotten a chance to write up some thoughts on two new projects
and to play around with the new DSL Toolkit CTP. Of course, having an
[extended battery](http://www.valence.com/ncharge2.asp) for the plane
ride was the reason I could do all that.

See you in the cabana on Monday…
