[Peter](http://www.peterprovost.org/weblog/)
[blogged](http://www.peterprovost.org/weblog/permalink.aspx?guid=7aba5a3a-547d-45c4-a0b4-eb7e2853950d)
on my laptop dev config. I used to have two machines, my “production”
machine for email and other office productivity and the my “development”
machine that I wouldn’t mind paving at a moments notice, if needed. Now,
I only have one machine so I can’t afford to be able to pave with
extreme prejudice. Since I have a honkin’ laptop (2.4 GHz P4, 1GB RAM,
85GB HD) I decided to go the VPC approach. All I have installed in my
host is Office 2003, SharpReader and VPC 2004 (it [went gold
today](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2003/nov03/11-10VPC2004RTMPR.asp),
so I upgraded). However, I have *six* VPC’s I’m managing. I can’t run
them all at the same time of course, but it does give me a lot of
flexibility. I run two primary VPC’s – one for
[WinXP](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp) and one for
[WS03](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/default.mspx). I’m
actually running the WinXP VPC in the background as I blog – I’m
installing the [VSIP SDK](http://www.vsipdev.com) (with the [VSIP Extras
Beta](http://www.vsipdev.com/extrasbeta/default.aspx) on deck). Then I
have three dogfood VPCs – Longhorn, Whidbey and Indigo. Finally, I have
a WS03 VPC running
[WSS](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/default.mspx). I need
to upgrade my [SharePoint Syndication
project](prj_sharepointsynd.aspx) to support WSS RTM, but I just haven’t
had the time.

Internally, we have a group that produces demo images and VPC’s for the
technical field. So if I’m going to demo BTS 2004, I don’t have to go
thru all the install process – I can either run a VPC or image my
machine. Typically, I just use their base image VPC’s and install what I
need.

Only downside to this approach – chews battery life like there is no
tomorrow. I have two spare batteries and was completely drained of power
going coast-to-coast a few weeks ago.
