My friend [Matt](http://technovangelist.com/) blogged
[ReMail](http://www.research.ibm.com/remail/index.html), a research
prototype email client from the [IBM Watson Research
Center](http://www.research.ibm.com/cambridge). Matt’s right that many
of these features of ReMail are already in Outlook 2003 (List
Seperators, Annotations, Threads, Collections). But what makes ReMail
really cool is their
[visualizations](http://www.research.ibm.com/remail/visualizations.html).
“The visualizations in Remail were designed to help people see
connections between messages and people that would otherwise be
invisible.” I’m going to need to read more about [Thread
Arcs](http://domino.watson.ibm.com/library/cyberdig.nsf/1e4115aea78b6e7c85256b360066f0d4/7a30ed0aac59bf5d85256d79006f272f?OpenDocument).

This cool visualization reminds me of a research talk I got to see by
[Alison Lee](http://www.webcollab.com/alee/) from IBM Watson Research
on campus a couple of weeks ago. Among other things, she showed off
[eTree](http://www.webcollab.com/alee/papers/infovis02.htm): “A Browse
and Query Interface for Online Communities”. Basically, its a tool for
visualizing the activity of a web discussion forum (such as the [ASP.NET
Forums](http://asp.net/forums)). In this idiom, each branch of the tree
is a forum and each leaf on the tree is a thread. “Hot” threads become
flowers on the branch. Older posts are dark green while newer posts are
lighter. Members of the community are rendered as circles around the
outside of the tree – selecting a user highlights the threads they have
participated in.

What’s really exciting is that researchers are starting to look at
blogging. I know lots of people were interested in the Wallop project
from the MS Research [Social Computing
Group](http://research.microsoft.com/scg/) that was highlighted @ PDC. I
want to see this technology make it into blogger tools.
