I’ve had my Nomad Zen for [just over a
month](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=cf03b637-f3fb-41eb-8e6f-bd4feb78295d)
now. I’ve loaded almost 6500 tracks from 525 albums and it’s only about
half full. However, I did have a slight issue with it. Walking across
campus the other day, I tripped over my own damn feet. Luckily, the
Nomad broke my fall :(. I ripped the protective case and scuffed the LCD
screen, but otherwise it didn’t seem any the worse for wear. However,
when I fired it up on the flight to Sydney it wouldn’t work. It would
boot and claim to be playing, but no music came out. If I selected a new
song, it would freeze and needed a hard reboot or battery removal in
order to shut down. I tried the reset button and reloading the firmware,
no luck. Today, I searched Creative Labs’ [knowledge
base](http://ask.americas.creative.com/SRVS/CGI-BIN/WEBCGI.EXE?New,Kb=creative_cli_us,U={B8F60310-DA4F-11D3-94F4-00500463020E},Company={CB344281-E2C7-4902-86F5-B8611142F879},d=1062520186265,VARSET=ws:http://us.creative.com/),
searched for “zen xtra crash” and found an
[article](http://dmzweb4.europe.creative.com/SRVS/CGI-BIN/WEBCGI.EXE/,/?St=799,E=0000000000020220752,K=2283,Sxi=0,Case=obj(10943),Kb=creative_cli_us)
on the Zen’s Rescue Mode. This allows you to Clean Up, Format All and
Reload OS. Clean Up took a while – around 15 minutes – but it did the
trick. I guess the rapid deceleration caused some temporary issue to the
internal hard drive, but there don’t seem to be any residual effects.
Even the song that I was listening to when I fell is fine.

Of course, no device is perfect. In addition to “Make Rescue Mode Easily
Discoverable”, I have two minor quibbles with the device. First, it
doesn’t draw power from the USB connection. With Red Chair’s [Notmad
Explorer](http://www.redchairsoftware.com/notmad/), I can play the music
from the Zen thru my computer’s speakers. I also use Notmad Explorer to
convert my music from WMA lossless to WMA 96k when it transfers to the
Zen. In both of these cases, the Zen is connected to the computer for a
long period of time. It would be nice if I didn’t have to plug in both
power and USB. Second (and more likely to be addressed as it’s a
software issue) is that when you’re listening to a song, you can get
it’s track details, displaying the artist and album names. It would be
nice to be able to jump directly to the artist or album in the music
library from the track details screen.

Minor quibbles aside, this is an awesome device.
