My session yesterday went very well, especially considering I did no
prep whatsoever. Drew a fairly good sized audience – people were sitting
on the floor and standing in the back, though honestly the TLC
“theaters” only hold about 50 chairs. Most of them stayed the for whole
session – at least until I started to run over (only 15 minutes, not too
bad).

After my session, I ended up talking to a customer from a large home
loan firm for about two hours. Turns out we had a friend in common, a
guy I used to work with a long time ago @ ModaCad named Brian. This is
actually the second time I’ve run into someone at a major Microsoft
conference who has a single degree of Brian, which is a little freaky.

For dinner, I went out with some MS field architects and some customers.
We ended up having such a big group, we split up into two tables and
somehow my table had four MS employees and only one customer. But that
customer was from a very large retail firm and we had lots to talk
about. Ate way too much, though I didn’t combine that with drinking too
much. And, as a bonus, I didn’t tell the customer than any of their
ideas were “stupid”, as my friend
[Christoph](http://weblogs.asp.net/cschittko/) pointed out I had done
the *last* time I was out to dinner with one of his customers. (That
customer wanted to run Java on their mainframe. I stand by my
assessment.)

I was *planning* to head up to my room, but ran into [Jon
Flanders](http://www.masteringbiztalk.com/blogs/jon/) in the lobby.
Hadn’t seen Jon since the class I took with him last fall, so I ended up
hanging out with him for several hours, chatting up the folks we knew
who walked by, including [Rocky](http://www.lhotka.net/),
[Bob](http://www.sqlskills.com/blogs/bobb/) and
[Brian](http://www.mcwtech.com/CS/blogs/brianr/). I realized I’ve been
heads down with no speaking or travel for about a year, so it’s been a
while since I had seen many of these folks. For example, I hadn’t seen
Brian in about three years when we were both presenting at TechEd New
Zealand. The downside of hanging out in the lobby is that I didn’t get
any code written last night, which I was sort of planning to do when I
headed back to the hotel. But chatting with these folks – esp. Jon this
time – helps be figure out *what* I want to write anyway, so I guess
it’s worth it!
:smile:

I ended up sleeping in this morning (still jet lagged) and skipping the
morning session. No second keynote this year, which I didn’t realize
until I looked at the conf guide this morning. Not sure if that’s a good
thing or a bad thing.

