After nearly two years in MSIT and six years focused on architecture
across three different roles, I’m moving on to a new job in the
Developer Division. In a couple of weeks, I’ll be joining the Dynamic
Languages team as a program manager. This is the team who ships
[IronPython](http://www.codeplex.com/IronPython),
[IronRuby](http://www.ironruby.com/), the [Dynamic Language
Runtime](http://blogs.msdn.com/hugunin/archive/2007/04/30/a-dynamic-language-runtime-dlr.aspx)
and [Dynamic Silverlight](http://dynamicsilverlight.net/). After seeing
all the their cool work [at Lang.NET this
year](http://devhawk.net/2008/01/31/Morning+Coffee+141+LangNET+08+Edition.aspx),
I just had to be a part of it.

As you might imagine, I’m pretty excited about this opportunity.

In the short term, I’ll be primarily focused on IronPython, which is
marching towards their 2.0 release. Towards that end, I’m attending
[PyCon 2008](http://us.pycon.org/2008/about/) in Chicago this weekend,
though I don’t officially change jobs for a couple more weeks. Longer
term…well let’s just say I’m going to be really focused on doing my part
to get IPy 2.0 out the door and after that we’ll see where things lie.
This is a pretty big shift for me, so I’m explicitly trying to focus on
short term work for the first six months in order to absorb as much
knowledge as possible from the folks I’ll be working with like [Jim
Hugunin](http://blogs.msdn.com/hugunin/default.aspx), [John
Lam](http://www.iunknown.com/), [Martin
Maly](http://blogs.msdn.com/mmaly/), [Jimmy
Schementi](http://jimmy.schementi.com/blog/) and a bunch of others who I
haven’t met yet.

While this is a pretty big role shift, I haven’t given up my passion for
services and/or architecture. In other words, this isn’t the last you’ll
hear about [Kitchen Sink
Variability](http://devhawk.net/2008/03/05/Kitchen+Sink+Variability.aspx),
[the ROI of
EA](http://devhawk.net/2008/03/03/What+Is+The+ROI+On+EA.aspx) or my
perspective on Nick’s [Shared Integration
Model](http://devhawk.net/2008/01/22/Nicks+Flawed+Vision+Of+A+Shared+Integration+Model.aspx).
Obviously, with the job focus change, I expect focus on my blog to
change as well. I’m not exactly sure how blogging fits into this new
role, though the Dynamic Languages team is pretty open and many other
members blog (as linked above) so I doubt I’m going anywhere. I’m going
to try and keep blogging Morning Coffee, but I’m guessing it won’t be
quite as regular as it has been in the past. Unfortunately, I am going
to stop coding [F\#](http://devhawk.net/CategoryView,category,F%23.aspx)
for a while (sorry, [Don](http://blogs.msdn.com/dsyme/)!) I can’t focus
on learning two languages at once and obviously Python is my new top
priority.

I wasn’t in my MSIT architect role that long, but I feel that the “in
the trenches” experience will serve me greatly for years to come. And of
course, I will miss my teammates, especially
[Dale](http://halfmybrain.spaces.live.com/)  who regular readers might
remember from [filling in around
here](http://devhawk.net/2007/02/22/Morning+Doughnuts+5.aspx)
occasionally.
