By now, everyone has seen the big news – [VS2005 Beta
1](http://lab.msdn.microsoft.com/vs2005/welcome), [Express
versions](http://msdn.microsoft.com/express/) and the new [VS2005 Dev
Center](http://lab.msdn.microsoft.com/vs2005). I’m provisioning a new
VPC to install it on. I’d love to move to VS2005 for all my dev work,
but I’m writing a few apps that need to be working in a production
environment long before we get to Beta 2, so I’m going to leave those on
VS.NET 2003…at least for now. However, there are a few longer-term
things that I’m working on that I’ve been wait to start coding on for
VS2005 that can now get started.

On the architecture side, we launched a [new SOA resource
page](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/soa). As part of the
launch, we are featuring an updated version of Pat’s Metropolis
presentation and a new SOA whitepaper. The version of Metropolis that
has been a part of the [Architecture Strategy
Series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series/) was one
of the first times Pat had presented it. Like many presentations, Pat
refined his delivery with each new time he delivered the talk. The new
version provides a new section that describes SOA as well as a section
drilling down on the guidance that the Metropolis model provides. Even
if you’ve seen the previous version, you should check out the new
version.

We also published a new whitepaper on [Service Orientation and Its Role
in Your Connected Systems
Strategy](http://download.microsoft.com/download/d/2/5/d2513e64-0dcd-4ef6-89c4-c99ee117936f/serviceorientationwpa4.doc).
It takes a Crawl/Walk/Run approach to describing the approach and
technology for service orientation today, next year with SQL 2005 & VS
2005, and further out with Longhorn and Indigo. It also covers such
areas as Service-Oriented Analysis, Designing for Change and
Extensibility, Service Management and Pattern of Service-Oriented
Solutions.

You can discuss the new whitepaper, the new version of the Metropolis
presentation or any other aspect of our SOA content on
[TheServerSide.NET](http://www.theserverside.net/news/thread.tss?thread_id=26889).
