Last night’s IASA meeting went very well. I always take it as a good
sign when community get-togethers end because building security kicks
you out 45 minutes after you were supposed to be done. About 25 people
showed up and were treated to food, free materials and factories. Steven
did a good job presenting Software Factories, and he was even nice
enough to let me chime in on a regular basis with my \$0.02. BTW, the
next meeting is on Oct 27th (last Wed of the month) and I’m going to
miss it because of
[OOPSLA](http://devhawk.net/2004/09/02/software-factories-at-oopsla/).
Watch the [IASA
website](http://www.iasarchitects.org/PFS/portal/media-type/html/user/anon/page/default.psml/js_pane/lkjkjhs-7k34j-89kjh23vjhg)
for more details.

One of the key questions asked was if MS was going to “break tradition”
with factories and embrace open systems. I guess we still have a long
way to go to change that perception, even though we standardized [CLI &
C\#](http://msdn.microsoft.com/net/ecma/) and continue to be a major
driver of the ongoing [web services standardization
effort](http://msdn.microsoft.com/webservices/community/workshops/default.aspx).
Regardless of perception, I agreed – I think it’s important to enable
Software Factories to be embraced by the industry at large. The
Architecture Strategy team has several members who are heavily involved
in standards bodies, and they had similar feedback. Of course, we have
nothing to embrace beyond the book so far, but we have
[hinted](http://devhawk.net/2004/02/02/being-a-model-citizen/)
at
[tooling](http://devhawk.net/2004/03/22/custom-modeling-languages/)
to come. As promised, I sent last nights feedback to Keith, Jack and the
other folks involved and I hope we’ll see that incorporated into their
long term plans.

I asked the hard-core folks who stayed late last night what they thought
was the best approach for MS to take for getting Software Factories
embraced by the industry. Obviously, any tooling around Software
Factories would be built on a set of specifications. We could
standardize these specifications as we have for CLI, C\# and web
services. Alternatively, we could simply publish the specifications with
an open and royalty-free license (similar to the [Office 2003 XML
Reference
Schemas](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=fe118952-3547-420a-a412-00a2662442d9&displaylang=en)).
Given recent comments by [Grady
Booch](http://www.booch.com/architecture/blog.jsp?archive=2004-05.html)
and [Simon
Johnston](http://www-106.ibm.com/developerworks/blogs/dw_blog_comments.jspa?blog=352&entry=60785)
(both from IBM) disparaging domain-specific languages and software
factories, I’m not sure how well a standardization process around DSLs
would proceed. On the other hand, I’m not sure how much industry buy-in
there would be for specifications that weren’t collaboratively
developed. Leave your opinion, and I’ll make sure it gets to Jack,
Keith, et. al. just like the feedback from last night did.
