So for the fourth time in seven months, I have a new manager. Way way
way back and the end of June, I [left marketing to be a solution
architect](http://devhawk.net/2005/06/24/My+Next+Job.aspx). In doing so,
I traded in [Norman](http://atlasbrandview.blogspot.com/) for
[John](http://blogs.msdn.com/jdevados/) as my manager. Things were
looking shiny but then Microsoft had a [major
reorg](http://seattlepi.nwsource.com/business/241469_msftdivide21ww.html)
back in September. These big reorgs often cause small ripples, like the
director of Architecture Strategy deciding to move back to a product
group. John was promoted to head the team and
[Gianpaolo](http://blogs.msdn.com/gianpaolo) was hired to take over
John’s previous role as head of solution architecture. Finally, it
seemed like things were calming down on the management front, so I was
caught off-guard by what happened next.

Last Monday, John offered me a chance to switch roles. We have spun up
an Edge Architecture team to focus on the architectural impact of the
next generation of computing – what some call “Web 2.0″ – and he thought
I would be a perfect fit for the team. I agreed and jumped at the
chance. So now I work for Michael Platt. Don’t let the infrastructure
focus of [Michael’s blog](http://blogs.technet.com/michael_platt) fool
you – he incredibly deep on Edge Architecture and I am currently playing
catch-up. The strangest thing so far is having to re-orient my thinking
for consumer focused systems and away from the enterprise world where I
have I’ve gotten the vast majority of my experience and where I have
spent my entire Microsoft career to date.

In the immediate future, I’m been dumped into the
[MIX06](http://www.mix06.com/) planning process. We have other stuff
going on in the MIX timeframe that I’ll get to soon enough. I’m also
re-thinking my personal presence. As my career progresses, the moniker
“DevHawk” seems more and more outdated. Is it?
