![](http://s3.amazonaws.com/devhawk_images/wga-support.png)Most of my
readers get DevHawk via the RSS feed, so I wanted to explicitly call out
a new addition to my flair. If you’re not aware, the [Writers Guild of
America](http://www.wga.org/) is on strike. When you buy a \$20 DVD, the
writer makes a measly 4 cents. When you watch an episode of your
favorite show online, the writer makes nothing. [This
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oJ55Ir2jCxk) explains the
situation pretty well.

Even though I’m about as [liberal as you can
get](http://devhawk.net/2007/07/03/A+Tough+Fourth.aspx), I’m not a big
union guy. Neither of my parents were in a union. Neither Julie nor I
are in a union. My only exposure to unions growing up was negative,
typically when the Washington Opera (where my mother works) was
negotiating with the musicians or stagehands. I vividly remember one
musician’s strike where one of their demands was to increase the minimum
call size to be bigger than the size of the orchestra pit. Needless to
say, that seemed like an unreasonable demand to me (though to be fair, I
only heard the management side of the story).

In the recent hockey labor dispute, I was [firmly on the side of the
owners](http://devhawk.net/2004/09/10/Long+Cold+Winter+Without+Hockey.aspx)
since day one. And while the teacher’s union is one of the strongest
bastions of democratic party support, I think the [modern education
system is fundamentally
broken](http://devhawk.net/2006/06/22/Against+School.aspx). So while I
am a liberal, I’ve never been a big union guy.

However, I’m firmly with the writers union on this one. I spent several
hours tonight reading a bunch of strike-related blogs, like [United
Hollywood](http://unitedhollywood.blogspot.com/). Obviously, they’re
coverage of the strike is pro-writer biased, but it’s hard to argue with
the idea of a fair wage for Internet delivered content. I particularly
like [this video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8a37uqd5vTw) which is a
series of clips of media CEOs bragging about how much money their
companies can make online. Yet – again, according to pro-writer blogs –
they [refuse to even
negotiate](http://unitedhollywood.blogspot.com/2007/10/wga-recently-released-following.html)
paying the writers a percentage of the money they make for using the
writer’s content that way.

And to add a Media 2.0 spin to all this, there was a fascinating post
wondering if Google could/would “[scoop up the entire entertainment
industry](http://unitedhollywood.blogspot.com/2007/11/google-save-us.html)“.
I don’t think substituting Google for [AMPTP](http://www.amptp.org)
(which includes among others “big media” like Disney, Fox and Viacom)
would be a good idea – new boss, same old problems. However, the idea of
bypassing the studios with direct Internet distribution is a good one.
One has to wonder how much this strike will accelerate that trend. This
strike seems much more risky for the distribution companies & networks
than for the writers – even direct distributed content needs to be
written, right?
