::: image-right
[![ResolverLogo](http://image.devhawk.net/blog-content/20081121-1053-resolver-one-1-3-released/ResolverLogo_thumb.png "ResolverLogo")](http://image.devhawk.net/blog-content/20081121-1053-resolver-one-1-3-released/ResolverLogo.png)
:::

IronPython’s biggest customer is [Resolver
Systems](http://www.resolversystems.com/), makers of [Resolver
One](http://www.resolversystems.com/products/), “a familiar
spreadsheet-like interface with the powerful Python programming language
to give you a tool to analyse and present your data.” While I think they
have a great product on pure merit – I’ve been [impressed with their
product](http://devhawk.net/2008/01/31/morning-coffee-141-lang-net-08-edition/)
since I was introduced to it at Lang.NET this year – I’m particularly
interested in Resolver One as it’s written in IronPython. They use IPy
not only as the embedded language exposed to end users but as the
underlying implementation language as well.

Furthermore, these guys are heavily involved in the IPy community.
Resolver developer [Michael
Foord](http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/weblog/index.shtml) is
[writing a book on IronPython](http://www.ironpythoninaction.com/) and
was our [first Dynamic Language
MVP](https://mvp.support.microsoft.com/profile=ACB6160C-9024-4838-98B7-3779DF6C79E8).
Michael’s Resolver colleague [Jonathan Hartley](http://www.tartley.com/)
did me a solid by [taking my
space](http://www.oredev.org/topmenu/program/trackcoollanguages/jonathanhartley.4.3efb083311ac562f9fe80006879.html)
at [ØreDev](http://www.oredev.org). Even the CTO and Co-founder [Giles
Thomas](http://www.gilesthomas.com/) is a regular blogger and speaker at
events. Let me tell you, having guys this great in the community sure
makes my job easier.

I just wanted to give the Resolver folks a shout out and say major
congratulations on [shipping a new
version](http://www.resolversystems.com/news/?p=73) of their core
Resolver One product. Michael has [more info on this
release](http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/weblog/arch_d7_2008_11_15.shtml#e1032)
as well as a glance forward with their plans for their next (IPy 2.0,
woot!)
