I’m in Los Angeles for PDC. Now that all the prep work is done, I’m
going to to try and get back to regular blogging and I figure that daily
reports from PDC is as good a way as any to get started.

I’m in town early for two reasons. We’re doing some last minute dry runs
tomorrow afternoon and I wanted to make sure I was in town in case there
was any other last minute stuff to do. Additionally, there’s a [Code
Camp in SoCal](http://www.socalcodecamp.com/) this weekend, so I
volunteered to do my [Pumping
Iron](http://www.socalcodecamp.com/session.aspx?sid=96fe471e-e96d-4c82-bfa4-a2f7d4d88387)
talk.

The talk went pretty well – the room was mostly full (though small) and
many folks stayed as much as 30 minutes over to ask questions. The Code
Camp is being held at USC, my alma mater, so it was kind of strange to
be standing in the front of the classroom in Vivian Hall rather than
taking notes at the back. I made a trip over to the campus bookstore
(thought I kept calling it the ‘company store’) for a new T-shirt for me
and some SC gear for the kids.

Hung out most of the day with [Mike
VIncent](http://mvasoftware.com/blogs/mikev_weblog) whom I’ve gotten to
know over the past couple of years thru his IASA and INETA involvement.
He’s doing a talk on [Dynamic Languages and the
DLR](http://www.socalcodecamp.com/session.aspx?sid=2151c611-844d-4918-bf8d-af0563677baa)
tomorrow at Code Camp, so I’m looking forward to that. Also spent time
with [Chris Smith](http://blogs.msdn.com/chrsmith/) (F\# SDET), [Dustin
Campbell](http://diditwith.net/) (VB PM), [Charlie
Calvert](http://blogs.msdn.com/charlie/) (C\# PM) and ran into
[DonXML](http://donxml.com/) as I was heading out.

I headed out early because I’m going up over the hill to Burbank tonight
to see some of my old college / LA buddies, drink some beer and watch
the [SC game](http://sports.espn.go.com/ncf/preview?gameId=282990012).
With our early loss to Oregon State, we can’t make the Rose Bowl, much
less the BCS Championship, without help. If win out but don’t get help,
we’ll still probably get a BCS at-large bid. For a team that’s been in
the championship hunt for the past five years, it’s disappointing, but
it’s also like “no pressure” – at least for me, an non-obsessive alumni
fan. (I typically save my obsession for Capitals hockey, but even that
takes a back seat to the presidential election for the next 11 days.)

I forget who said it, but someone said today that “Los Angeles was like
paradise 50 years ago”. Truer words were rarely ever said. It’s nice to
be on campus and see friends and all that, but I can’t wait to go home.
Why does PDC *always* have to be in LA?
[Mike](http://blogs.msdn.com/mswanson/)? Well, at least it’s not [on
fire this
time](http://devhawk.net/2003/10/26/Stuck+SEATACLike+Everyone+Else.aspx).
