By coincidence when I was in DC last spring, I got an email from [Ted
Leonsis](http://ted.aol.com/), Vice Chairman of American Online and
owner of the [Washington Capitals](http://www.washingtoncaps.com/). Long
time DevHawk readers might remember that I [called
Ted](http://devhawk.net/2004/02/19/doing-the-unthinkable/) “an
abomination to the sport of hockey” in the wake of trading Peter Bondra
in the “Great Caps Fire Sale of 2004″ (Jagr, Lang, Nylander, Gonchar and
Bondra). So I was somewhat surprised that wrote that he wanted to meet
me since I blog a lot about the Caps. As I was in town, we arranged a
meeting on short notice. I gotta say, it’s much easier to call someone
an abomination on your blog than to their face.
:smile:

 I got to spend an hour chatting about hockey – both from a game and
ownership standpoint. Not that I’m likely to own a hockey team any time
soon, but it was cool to hear about. I agreed with the owners during the
lockout before Ted’s hockey team math lesson, but it was useful to see
all the numbers laid out. We also spoke about Web 2.0 and new media to
some extent. I guess it’s not surprising that a vice chairman of AOL is
acutely aware of the changing face of the media – hence his reaching out
to bloggers, even ones that have said bad things about him.

Anyway, expect to see more hockey coverage on these pages in the future.
And significantly less owner name calling, unless we trade [Calder
Trophy](http://www.nhl.com/trophies/calder.html) winner [Alexander
Ovechkin](http://www.washingtoncaps.com/team/player.asp?player_id=17):
