After spending Monday morning exploring Shunjuku, I had meetings and
dinner with the local architect evangelists followed Tuesday morning by
a meeting with the local evangelism lead. (which was in turn followed by
a flight to Kuala Lumpur which is why I’m not posting this until now).
In my first year on the job, I focused on the “basics” which included
helping improve [Architecture
Center](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture) and handling the
[TechEd](http://www.microsoft.com/seminar/teched2004/default.mspx)
Architecture Track. As part of that focus, I spent little time worrying
about globalization issues. Not that they aren’t important, I just
didn’t have the bandwidth to handle it. Now that we have worked through
the basics, plus it’s now “we” and not just “me”, we can start to have
some focus on better globalization support. For example, there’s a
[Japanese Architecture
Center](http://www.microsoft.com/japan/msdn/architecture/) that needs to
have the same content as the MSDN site. Machine translation may have
come a long way, but there’s still longer to go. Given the massive
number of characters in eastern languages, machine translation to
English works pretty well – here’s the [Japanese Architecture Center in
English](http://babelfish.altavista.com/babelfish/trurl_pagecontent?url=http://www.microsoft.com/japan/msdn/architecture&lp=ja_en)
(translated by [Babelfish](http://babelfish.altavista.com/)). However,
translating to Japanese (or other eastern languages) is much much more
difficult.

Like several other MSFT subsidiaries, Japan has someone responsible for
broad reach architecture – i.e. architect with a lower case “a” – so we
spent most of our time discussing plans and figuring out how best to
leverage each other. I was really impressed how deep these guys were on
Software Factories and modeling already – they had a session on Software
Factories at the TechEd Japan last week!

Now I’m in Kuala Lumpur for TechEd Malaysia. I’m presenting the Data in
SOA talk today and Metropolis tomorrow as part of the [Architecture
track](http://www.microsoft.com/malaysia/events/teched/breakoutsessions.htm#7).
I had breakfast with [Software
Legend](http://www.microsoft.com/malaysia/events/teched/softwarelegends.htm)[Tim
Huckaby](http://www.interknowlogy.com/IKCorporate/AboutUs/CompanyExecutives/TimothyHuckaby.htm)
who I met the first time two years ago at TechEd Malaysia. My teammate
Gurpreet just showed me the deck for his Enterprise Architecture talk
he’s presenting in about 30 minutes. He’s also doing a presentation
tomorrow on Microsoft Architecture Vision & Direction. The EA deck is
pretty good and the Vision & Direction talk is something he’s been
working on for several months, so I’m looking forward to seeing both of
these. We’re working on the next release of [The Architecture Strategy
Series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/overview/series/) and I’m
thinking these talks should be included.
