I used to say that everything we build should be a platform except for
games. What’s interesting is that games are becoming platforms in their
own right. [Dungeon Siege](http://www.microsoft.com/games/dungeonsiege/)
has the freely downloadable [Siege
Editor](http://www.microsoft.com/games/pc/dsloa.aspx#enhanceit) which
allows you to “rework nearly every aspect of the gaming world, making
Dungeon Siege not only a game, but also a platform for those who wish to
create their own spells, dungeons, and even entire worlds.” There are
[several](http://www.dungeonsiege.com/mod_spotlight.shtml)[projects](http://planetdungeonsiege.com/community/siegelets/total/)
that do just that. And [Dungeon Siege
II](http://www.microsoft.com/games/pc/dungeonsiege2.aspx) is coming
later this year, which [looks
amazing](http://download.microsoft.com/download/d/7/2/d721e16d-6f7d-4406-84ec-06c5c75291fe/DS2_Trailer1_3Mb.wmv)
(all trailer graphics were rendered with the game engine). If RTS is
more your speed, Relic – developers of [Impossible
Creatures](http://www.microsoft.com/games/impossiblecreatures/) – has
their [developer network](http://www.relic.com/rdn/index.php) which
provides both a companion tool for enhancing Impossible Creatures as
well as the Impossible Creatures SDK “which includes source code from
the IC engine that can be used to create Total Conversion Mods for IC”
(Relic Developer Network requires registration). Of course, there’s also
the [Allegiance source
code](http://research.microsoft.com/research/allegiance/) which was
released a few months ago.

I guess the new viewpoint is that everything we build should be a
platform, *including* games.
