As per [Major Nelson’s
blog](http://www.majornelson.com/archive/2006/11/22/video-marketplace-now-live.aspx),
the [XBL Video
Marketplace](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/live/marketplace/moviestv/default.htm)
went live yesterday. Being off work yesterday (vacation time: use it or
lose it), I fired up the ol’ 360 to have a look see for myself. [V for
Vendetta](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0434409/) in HD? Cool. 6GB? Not so
cool. Guess I’ll have to blow away some of the demos that I’m not
playing in order to make space.

The amount of HD space needed for HD movies begs the question, why isn’t
Video Marketplace available for PC? My 20GB of Xbox HD space is taken up
with game demos and downloads. But my home PC(s) can spare that kind of
space. I’d much rather download the content to my PC then stream it
across my home network to the 360 when I want to watch it. Not sure how
DRM (I assume the content uses WM DRM) impacts network streaming, but I
would guess that’s a solvable problem.

While I’m talking about DRM, why do I have to pay to download DRMed
rental content? Shouldn’t I pay when it’s time to actually watch the
content? I understand having a time limit (24 hours) to *finish*
watching content I rented, but why is there a time limit (14 days) to
*start* watching it? Once it’s downloaded it, I’m no longer using XBL
resources, so why put any limit on it at all?

The pricing model seems pretty much in line with iTunes and/or
Blockbuster. \$2 to own a TV show, \$3 to rent a “classic” movie, \$4 to
rent a new release movie, with a 50% markup for HD content
(\$3/\$4.50/\$6). While these prices are pretty typical, where’s the
all-you-can-watch subscription plan? The all-you-can-listen model is one
of the key values of
[Zune](http://www.zune.net/en-us/meetzune/zunepass.htm) or
[PlaysForSure](http://www.playsforsure.com/) services like
[Napster](http://www.napster.com/) and [Urge](http://www.urge.com) not
to mention [NetFlix](http://www.netflix.com/). I’d probably scrap my
premium channel cable plan if I could get an unlimited subscription to
XBL Video Marketplace.

I’d also like to see more content pricing tiers. Owning a 45 minute
[CSI](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/csi/) for \$2 seems pretty fair. But
\$2 for an 11 minute [Space Ghost Coast to
Coast](http://www.adultswim.com/shows/spaceghost/index.html) seems
overpriced. And while I’m making requests, how about making it easy to
buy an entire season of a given show – both from a pricing perspective
(i.e. a discount for buying an entire season) as well as a user
experience perspective (i.e. one click to buy the whole season).

So all in all, a pretty cool service with some room for improvement. The
availability of significant amounts of good HD content is a MAJOR winner
for this service and a great foundation to build on. Like all things XBL
related, I assume Video Marketplace will evolve over time. Can’t wait to
see how it goes.
