As I’ve [written
before](http://devhawk.net/2005/07/05/the-inform-language/), I
originally got the programming bug from a desire to build my own text
adventure games. with significant influence from [my
dad](http://cid-885df99f8fd01cd9.profile.live.com/). Now that I’m a
father myself, I want my kids to have a similar opportunity, even if
they never choose to go into the “family business”.

::: image-left
[![kodu\_guy](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/kodu_guy_5.jpg "kodu_guy")](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/kodu/default.aspx)
:::
Of course, the technology has moved on significantly since the days of
“You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike”. At CES
yesterday, Microsoft
[announced](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/community/news/2009/0107-kodu.htm)
Kodu which I’ve [written about
before](http://devhawk.net/2007/03/08/morning-coffee-41-techfest-edition/)
under it’s original name Boku. Kodu came out of [Microsoft
Research](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/kodu/default.aspx)
as a tool for teaching kids how to program. The programming language is
very visual and iconic and you use the Xbox controller exclusively for
all input. Here’s a screenshot:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devhawk/devhawk.github.io/master/images/blog/kodu_programming_ui.jpg)

To demo Kodu at CES, Robbie Bach brought a 12 year old girl named
Sparrow up on stage to demo. I showed the video to my kids this morning
and they went gaga for it. They’re a little young – Patrick turns 6 next
month and Riley turns 4 later this year – but I think they’ll be able to
get the hang of it (with a little help from dad). Below is the video of
the CES demo, and there are more Kodu videos at On10 ([Matthew MacLaurin
on
Kodu](http://on10.net/blogs/larry/CES-2009-Matthew-MacLaurin-on-Kodu/)
and [Watch Kodu in
Action](http://on10.net/blogs/larry/CES-2009-Watch-Kodu-in-Action/)).

Personally, I think this is brilliant. I have been eagerly waiting a
change to play this with my kids for over a year, so I’m very excited
that they’re bringing this to market. Seriously, [Halo
Wars](http://www.xbox.com/games/halowars/) just got bumped to the \#2
slot on my “Most Anticipated Xbox Games of 2009” list.

I’m most interested in how these creations will be shared online. I
couldn’t find any details, but Robbie [specifically
said](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/exec/steve/2009/01-07ces.mspx)
“And on Xbox Live they can distribute and share those finished games
with other people.” Will there be a charge? (“normal” Community Games
[cost](http://creators.xna.com/en-US/faq#anchor_2_5) between \$2.50 and
\$10 a pop) How will [parental
controls](http://creators.xna.com/en-US/faq#anchor_1_12) affect shared
Kodu games? I guess those details will come closer to release.
