::: image-right
[![](http://image.devhawk.net/blog-content/20091021-1527-ironpython-and-ironruby-ctps-for-net-4-0-beta-2/VSLogo.png)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/vstudio/dd582936.aspx)
:::
In case you’ve been hiding under a rock (or maybe just aren’t tracking
developments in the .NET community outside of IronPython), Microsoft
[released Visual Studio 2010 beta
2](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/vstudio/dd582936.aspx) this week. Of
course for me personally, the most important feature in Visual Studio
2010 is [C\# 4.0 new dynamic
type](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd264736(VS.100).aspx)
([also available in Visual
Basic](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd537660(VS.100).aspx),
but since VB already supported some level of late binding it’s not
exactly “new” to VB).

For those of you who want to experiment with this cool new feature, may
I present [IronPython 2.6 CTP for .NET 4.0 Beta
2](http://ironpython.codeplex.com/Release/ProjectReleases.aspx?ReleaseId=28125).
If you can’t think of any cool things to try with this new feature, the
VB team blog [has some
scenarios](http://blogs.msdn.com/vbteam/archive/2008/12/17/walkthrough-dynamic-programming-in-visual-basic-10-0-and-c-4-0-lisa-feigenbaum.aspx)
to get your started.

Also available: [IronRuby CTP for .NET 4.0 Beta
2](http://ironruby.codeplex.com/Release/ProjectReleases.aspx?ReleaseId=33305)
if you’re more into gemstones than snakes.

These are preview releases, which means they’ve gone thru basic testing.
If you find any bugs, PLEASE report them via [the usual
channel](http://ironpython.codeplex.com/WorkItem/Create.aspx). I wrote
in my Post 2.6 Roadmap post, “we are committed to shipping the RTM of
our .NET 4.0 version the day that Visual Studio 2010 is publicly
available” but that means shaking out the bugs between now and then. We
need your help so we’re ready to go by Visual Studio 2010 launch – March
22, 2010 [as per Soma’s
blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/somasegar/archive/2009/10/19/announcing-visual-studio-2010-and-net-fx-4-beta-2.aspx).

BTW, [Alcides
Fonseca](http://alcidesfonseca.com) [suggested](http://devhawk.net/CommentView,guid,dbf7d543-5a65-4642-a1f0-44f25aa1ff37.aspx#commentstart)
we call this release “IronPython 2.6 N4” since it’s designed to run on
.NET Framework 4.0. I like that. What do you think?
