I flew down to San Diego for the [Emerging Technology
Conference](http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/et2006) today. I’m here
thru Thursday which is the longest I’ve been gone from home since TechEd
last year. And I’m only home eight days before heading off to SPARK and
MIX for an even longer trip. Well, the SPARK/MIX trip is just one day
longer than ETech. But a day can seem like an eternity to my three year
old son who was predicting “Daddy come home in one minute” as I was
pulling out of the driveway.

I skipped the [pre-confernece
tutorials](http://conferences.oreillynet.com/pub/w/43/tutorials.html),
though several looked interesting. I’m really looking forward to hearing
[Bruce
Sterling](http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/et2006/view/e_sess/8466)
speak tonight.

And for those keeping track of my travel shenanigans with Alaska
Airlines, no problems with the flight today. Apparently they only screw
up when I’m in a hurry. And even better news is that I’ve re-earned my
MVP status. I used to fly with them all the time, but then with the new
role and new baby I just didn’t fly much last year. But they had some
“quick earning” program that let me re-earn my status. They even gave me
MVP status for the flight today, so I got to sit in first class. Crowded
flight too, so it was nice. Of course, in what has become true Alaska
Air style, I had to wait on hold and deal with a subordanant flunky for
twenty minutes before I could talk to a supervisor who could get me
registered into the quick MVP program, but it turned out OK so I guess I
shouldn’t complain.
