After [seeing
it](http://www.theserverside.net/news/thread.tss?thread_id=30683) on
TSS.net, I checked out the [X-develop](http://www.x-develop.com/)
product website. X-develop is a new multi-language cross-platform IDE
that supports both .NET languages like VB.NET, C\# and J\# as well as
Java. It includes support for all the .NET 2.0 features like generics as
well as new Java 5.0 features like generics, varargs, enums and boxing.

When I checked out the website, I noticed a section covering “[Custom
Languages](http://www.x-develop.com/xdevelop_extend.htm)“. Here’s
another example of bias against DSLs – this time in favor of “full grown
OO languages”:

> “The [X-develop] language plugin API is not limited to toy languages
> or *little domain specific languages*. Instead it supports full grown
> OO languages. In fact the support for Java, C\#, J\# and Visual
> Basic.NET is implemented as language plugins.” (Emphasis added)

This reminds me of the same kind of bias that was leveled against
classic VB. Classic VB was valuable primarily *because* it was limited
in scope and capability. But what it gave up in capability it gained in
productivity. Along the same lines, DSLs are valuable *because* they are
little, because they only focus on a single problem domain.

What exactly would be the value of another “full-grown OO language”?
What features would be in a new full grown language that isn’t already
in Java/J\#, C\# or VB.NET? The only feature I can think of is dynamic
language support such as [type
inference](http://boo.codehaus.org/Type+Inference) and [duck
typing](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?DuckTyping) a la
[Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) and
[Boo](http://boo.codehaus.org/). What non-domain specific language
features are you still waiting for?
