When I wrote yesterday about the [Browser as
VM](http://devhawk.net/2006/02/02/browser-as-virtual-machine/), I
made the point that extensibility is difficult as we have four major
browsers and multiple OSes to deal with. What Web 2.0 company is going
to be willing to bet on a proprietary extension implemented in only one
of those combinations? Not many if any I would guess. However, there is
one option that works across all those browsers and OSes: Macromedia
(now Adobe) [Flash
Player](http://www.macromedia.com/software/flashplayer/).

Unlike the browser, where AJAX is a relatively new idea, Flash has been
positioning itself as a [platform](http://www.macromedia.com/platform/)
for [nearly four
years](http://download.macromedia.com/pub/flash/whitepapers/richclient.pdf).
Instead of AJAX, Macromedia coined the term Rich Internet Application or
RIA. RIAs share a lot in common with AJAX in that they are downloaded on
demand, execute arbitrary script code and can retrieve data across the
network. But the most interesting commonality that Flash has with the
browser is that runs across multiple browsers and OSes.

In platform portability, Flash has succeeded where Java failed. I
haven’t done enough research to know exactly why yet, but I suspect that
it’s because Java tried to be a complete portable environment on day one
where Flash focused on specific functionality that weren’t possible any
other way – so called “skip intros” – and grew up from there. In other
words, Java tried the top-down approach and Flash tried the bottom-up
approach. I’m not surprised bottom-up worked and top-down crashed and
burned.

While the modern browser has evolved to make it a capable platform, it
still lacks some capabilities that Flash has. Most notably support for
rich media. Thus, sites like [Pandora](http://www.pandora.com/), [Google
Video](http://video.google.com/) and [MTV
Overdrive](http://mtv.com/overdrive) need the capabilities provided by
Flash.

While it’s hard to imagine enhancements to the browser due to the
difficulties across four browsers and multiple OSes, improvements to
Flash are easy to imagine. [According to
Macromedia](http://www.macromedia.com/platform/whitepapers/platform_overview.pdf),
Flash has 98% penetration. Even more impressive is that Flash reaches
80% penetration with new versions of the player within 12 months.

Check out [this post](http://www.klynch.com/archives/000082.html) from
Kevin Lynch for more on Flash for Web 2.0 companies. So far, the only
Web 2.0 company I know about (which is to say I’m sure there are more
out there) is [Goowy](http://www.goowy.com/). Which ones am I missing?
