I think I’m cursed – my HW woes continue. My multibay hard drive where I
keep all my data as well as run my VPC’s from has started to go belly
up. So 22 GB of backing up later, I’m going to see if a complete
reformat of the drive solves the problem. I’m thinking it’s a controller
issue, so reformatting isn’t going to do squat, but I gotta see if I can
salvage the drive. If not, a replacement multi-bay drive is not cheap.

In better news, I picked up [Amped
2](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/amped2/), [Grabbed by the
Ghoulies](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/ghoulies/) and [Crimson
Skies](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/crimsonskies/) @ the company store
today. Crimson Skies is the one I wanted the most, but I liked the
original Amped and I hear the sequel is pretty cool. I picked up
Ghoulies primarily as a gift for the
[school](http://www.sacredheart.org/school/shshome.html) where my wife
works as the director of [Extended School
Services](http://www.sacredheart.org/school/Office/ESS/ESS.html). They
have an XBOX but few games, so I figured I’d help out. I’m still waiting
for [NHL Rivals 2004](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/nhlrivals2004/) and
[Project Gotham Racing 2](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/pgr2/). PGR2 was in
the store briefly yesterday, but sold out almost immediately. Since I’m
cursed, my XBOX is [having occasional
issues](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/support/hardware/discerror.htm) as
well, but nothing a little patience doesn’t cure.
