Sam Gentile decided to spawn a [new
blog](http://web.mac.com/fusionclr/iWeb/Sam%20Gentile%20Personal%20Site/Blog/Blog.html)
because [he doesn’t feel his CodeBetter
blog](http://codebetter.com/blogs/sam.gentile/archive/2007/04/01/New-Personal_2C00_-Family-and-MAC-Site-and-Blog.aspx)
is the place to write about “politics, music, family or life in
general”. I understand Sam’s feelings 100%. I maintained
[blogs.msdn.com/devhawk](http://blogs.msdn.com/devhawk/ "http://blogs.msdn.com/devhawk/") for
these exactly these reasons. But since I’m no longer an evangelist (or
MVP, natch) and my blog no longer graces the pages of the [MSDN
Architecture Center](http://msdn2.microsoft.com/architecture), I don’t
bother to provide a dev-centric, politically sanitized and work safe
version of this blog. As I [wrote several years
ago](http://devhawk.net/2004/10/14/Waking+Up.aspx) that DevHawk is not a
technical blog, it’s my personal blog. Like Sam, I don’t get paid to
write it and if you don’t want to put up with [my
politics](http://devhawk.net/CategoryView,category,Politics.aspx) to get
[my architecture
insights](http://devhawk.net/CategoryView,category,Architecture.aspx),
you’re free to unsubscribe. 

Sam, if you’re reading this, I suggest that you have one “master” blog
and one “sanitized” blog, rather than two independent ones. I’ve tried
having two separate blogs, but one always suffered. My rationale was
always that there is only one “me” and I wanted once place that reflects
the things I am passionate about. If I felt a specific post needed to be
sanitized for whatever reason (too personal, too vulgar, not technical,
etc.) I would simply choose to not cross post it to my MSDN blog.
