Got to Phoenix only to discover I had left the charger for my
[development
laptop](http://pandi.itrc.hp.com/busprod/specifications/0,12513,series=96320^type=^category=,00.html?lsidebarLayId=79&rsidebarLayId=64)
(otherwise known as my “portable server”). Since I’m here to talk code,
maybe having a working laptop is a good idea. (My
[tablet](http://devhawk.net/2003/05/29/new-tablet-for-harry/) is
going to be a good dev machine, but I haven’t gotten it entirely
configured yet). I drove around a while, looking for a replacement AC
adapter. Found what I thought was a [Fry’s
Electronics](http://www.frys.com), but was actually a [Fry’s Food &
Drug](http://www.frysfood.com/index.htm). Luckily, there was a Best Buy
nearby. No AC adapter, but they did have the [T2: Extreme
Edition](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/content_provider/film/T2DVD.aspx)
on sale so I picked it up. I eventually found a [universal AC
adapter](http://igo.ententeweb.com/mapfiles/juice.asp) after visiting
two Radio Shacks, but frankly I wanted to check out T2. Unfortunately,
the “player recommendation” indicate that laptops don’t play the hi-def
version “due to the amount of data transfer required”. They weren’t
kidding. But even without being able to watch the hi-def version ([for
now](http://devhawk.net/2003/06/01/i-want-my-hdtv-soon/)), it’s
got lots of great features. Audio commentary by James Cameron, lots of
new documentaries and on-the-set footage. Favorite toy: the Terminator
FX studio. You can import your own photos and either make morph videos
into the T1000 or create a “battle damaged” T800. I only have pictures
of my son with me, so I made a cool, but disturbing, photo of him as a
T800 with part of the cybernetics showing through.
