I’m way behind on blog reading as well as writing, so maybe other have
covered these, but I feel compelled to mention them anyway.

[Microsoft XNA](http://www.microsoft.com/xna/) is an odd name (we sure
have a fascination with the letter ‘X’) for a very interesting looking
game development platform. You can check out the videos to see some idea
of the capabilities, but trust me they’re pretty impressive (of course,
they are pre-rendered – I wanna see them render in real-time on my
machine). In addition to the graphics capabilities, they’re bringing
Xbox Live to Windows. And the
[FAQ](http://www.microsoft.com/xna/faq.aspx) implies that the XNA will
be part of the DirectX SDK & Xbox XDK, meaning that there won’t be any
additional cost for it. I wonder how this toolkit will impact the
non-industry programmer. i.e. can *I* use it to make 3D games?

I’ve blogged before about my interest in
[machinima](http://www.machinima.com/) – which is frankly why I’m
interested in XNA. Now, Lionhead studios and Activision is coming out
with [The Movies](http://www.themoviesgame.com/home.html), a simulation
game where you get to manage a movie studio. What’s cool is that you can
actually [make little movies](http://www.themoviesgame.com/make.html)
(according to the [FAQ](http://www.lhtimes.com/themoviesfaq.html),
average length is between 30 seconds and three minutes, but you can make
full-length movies if you have the patience) [Horror
movies](http://www.themoviesgame.com/screenshot_horror1.html) and
[westerns](http://www.themoviesgame.com/screenshot_western2.html) have
screenshots, but you can make sci-fi, action, comedy, romance, thriller
and romance movies as well. I don’t get much game time these days (I’ve
gone back to work my way thru the original Splinter Cell before buying
Pandora Tomorrow) but I know this is one I’ll get as soon as it comes
out.
