Typically, we recognize big change after it happens, not before. That
gives you great appreciation for life-changing events that you realize
are upon you. In my life, becoming a husband and becoming a father are
two great examples of this. Today is another. Today is my last day as a
member of Microsoft’s field organization.

After nearly five years “in the field” with Consulting, the National
Technology Team and the .NET Adoption Team, I am moving into a new
position at corporate HQ with the .NET Enterprise Architecture Team
(known as .NEAT). I’ll be working for [Adam
Denning](http://www.bitslag.com/ad.htm) (who in a previous life wrote a
[couple](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1572313501/ref=pd_sim_art_elt/102-6912101-3498524?v=glance)
of
[books](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1556158246/ref=pd_sim_art_elt/102-6912101-3498524?v=glance)
on ActiveX Controls). .NEAT is a part of the Platform Strategy group
headed up by [Sanjay
Parthasarathy](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/exec/sanjay/default.asp)
which is in turn part of [Eric
Rudder’s](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/exec/ericr/default.asp)
Servers and Tools division. I get to work with some great people, most
notably Pat Helland. Among other achievements, Pat was a “[founding
member](http://www.microsoft.com/canada/msdn/ecdc/speaker.asp)” of the
MTS team and he coined the term [Autonomous
Computing](http://murl.microsoft.com/LectureDetails.asp?872). Plus he’s
got a [great singing voice](http://zdnet.com.com/2100-1104-942018.html).

My role on .NEAT will be to foster Microsoft’s architect community.
Currently, we have the [MSDN Architecture
Center](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/), [Architect
Webcasts](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/community/webcasts/default.aspx)
and the [Community Architecture and Design GDN
Workspaces](http://gotdotnet.com/team/architecture/). My goal is to
expand the reach and membership of these efforts as well as improve the
two-way communication channel between MSFT and the architect community.
There is a lot of work to be done around architecture. When I heard
[John Zachman
speak](PermaLink.aspx?guid=acb5c7d4-12a2-4e18-a0a5-fee8780c89f6), he
stressed that we are at the very beginning of the Information
Revolution. If we look to history and see the widespread effects of the
Industrial Revolution, we come away with a better understanding of just
how much change the Information Revolution will bring. Much more than
one company can do alone [in my opinion](default.aspx#disclaimer).
Architecture will play a key role in the Information Revolution, so
involvement in a community of architects that shares ideas and
distributes influence is pretty critical for Microsoft.

While specific community plans aren’t fully baked yet, I imagine it’s
pretty obvious that blogging will be a part of them. In fact, after
[Scoble](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011) I may be the second person at
Microsoft to get a job in part due to my blog. One of my first duties is
to get Pat blogging. Watch for that soon. Pat’s working on the next
generation of the Autonomous Computing architecture vision, code named
Metropolis. Get more info on that at the [PDC Architecture
Symposium](http://msdn.microsoft.com/events/pdc/symposia.aspx).

In addition to working with Pat, Adam and the other people on .NEAT,
there are some other benefits of this change:

-   I don’t have to travel so much. My wife and 7 month old son are very
    excited about this. When I do travel, it will be to work interesting
    conferences, like PDC.
-   I can wear jeans every day and listen to music while I do my job.
    It’s pretty hard to listen to Linkin Park while presenting on SOA.
-   I get my own office with windows and a door. I figured since I was
    the new guy on the team, I’d get a cube near the bathroom or
    something. Apparently, those five years of seniority count for
    something. However, the rumor mill has it that we’re moving soon so
    I don’t know how long I’ll have it. They are even recarpeting it
    right after I start.
-   I have a lab of hardware “at my disposal”. \<insert evil laugh
    here\>
-   Since I don’t travel so much, I should be able to make at least one
    of [Scoble’s geek
    dinners](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2003/09/17.html#a4655) at
    Crossroads. I’ve been out of town for all of the ones he’s arranged
    so far, including this past Wednesday. Of course, if Scoble’s been
    planning them around my travel schedule, he’s screwed.
    ![:)](http://devhawk.net/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif)

Of course, there are a few downsides.

-   I may be joining a great team, but I’m also leaving a great manager
    and a great team that I helped build. I will miss working with them.
    It’s the first team I’ve been a part of at Microsoft that handed out
    official team nicknames like Guns, Groove Train, Voodoo, Jet and
    Swahili Wild Ass. Mine was Wizard, an obvious reference to Harry
    Potter.
-   With each job I take at MSFT, coding seems to become less a part of
    the job description. This is no exception.
-   Since I have an office, I can only assume I’m supposed to be in it
    regularly. After being a technical nomad for five years, the idea of
    going to the same place every day is sorta weird. At least there’s
    free soda there.
-   I have to give up my Toshiba Tablet PC. Since I don’t travel, I
    can’t justify two computers. So I picked
    [power](http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/us/en/en/WF05a/321957-64295-89315-212727-f26-96322.html)
    over
    [style](http://www.csd.toshiba.com/cgi-bin/tais/pc/pc_tabletPcDetail.jsp?comm=CS).
    Maybe a Tablet PC vendor would like to give me an extended loaner?

In the short term, I may go dark on this blog since I’ve got a lot of
work to do before PDC. Don’t worry. In the famous words of Arnold
Schwarzenegger, I’m running for Governor of California.
