I need to start using more communication tools on the internet.
Yesterday I researched [Vonage](http://www.vonage.com/) and downloaded
[Skype](http://www.skype.com/). Given how much I use my mobile phone, I
don’t think I need to spend so much on my home phone system. Vonage is
much cheaper than my current phone provider – only \$30 a month – which
includes unlimited calling in the US. It’s got neat features like
[virtual
numbers](http://www.vonage.com/features.php?feature=virtual_phone_number),
so multiple numbers in different area codes all point to the same phone.
And while it provides unlimited US calling, the phone doesn’t have to be
in the US. So if my brother-in-law in Germany got it, he could call all
his family in the US for free. A teammate has it, and said it works
pretty well. Anyone else out there using it? If I got it, I’d like to
use it with the existing phone wiring in the house. My cable box has to
dial up to download program listings. I think it would be funny to use
an analog model over the broadband connection.

As for Skype, lots of people have blogged that, so I won’t bother to
here, except to point out that [Skype
1.0](http://www.skype.com/download.html) is now available (released
today). Feel free to [skype me](callto://harrypierson/), though it
doesn’t appear to work through the corporate firewall.

Update – I should have realized, but there are other choices in the
internet telephone business. [Lingo](http://www.lingo.com) caught my eye
– only \$20 a month for unlimited calling to the US, Canada and Western
Europe (which includes Germany where my afore-mentioned brother-in-law
lives). Anyone on Lingo? Also, I’m not sure why, but you can only call
landlines in Europe as part of the unlimited calling plan. I also
noticed that calling mobile phones in Europe on Vonage is more
expensive. Why is that?
