The words everyone is using to describe President-Elect Obama’s
transition is “hit the ground running.” Of all the aspects of the
transition, I wanted to call out [Change.gov](http://change.gov/), the
new website dedicated to the transition. There’s not much up there yet:
Obama’s election-night [Grant Park
speech](http://change.gov/newsroom/entry/president_elect_obama_speaks_on_the_eve_of_this_election/),
Obama’s [first press
conference](http://change.gov/newsroom/entry/president_elect_obama_meets_with_economic_advisers_calls_for_swift_action_o/)
and first [radio
address](http://change.gov/newsroom/entry/president_elect_obama_calls_for_swift_action_on_the_economy_in_weekly_democ/)
as president-elect, the
[announcement](http://change.gov/newsroom/entry/emanuel_to_be_obamas_white_house_chief_of_staff/)
that Rahm Emanuel will be Chief of Staff and transition co-chair
[Valerie Jarrett’s MTP
appearance](http://change.gov/newsroom/entry/transition_team_co_chair_valerie_jarrett_discusses_priorities_on_meet_the_p/).
Of course, it has been less than a week since the election – there’s
only so much that could get done in that time, even when you hit the
ground running.

Most interesting about the site is how it invites average American
citizens to participate. Maybe not surprising, given the Politics 2.0
campaign Obama ran, but it’s nice to see an administration that’s
interested in [my story about the
election](http://change.gov/page/s/yourstory), [my vision for what
America can be](http://change.gov/page/s/yourvision) and [my ideas about
solving our biggest challenges](http://change.gov/page/s/ofthepeople).
Obviously, it remains to be seen how an Obama administration will use
this information, but there’s little reason to ask for everyone’s
opinions if you’re not really interested in reading or acting on them.

The one criticism I’d make about the site is that it looks like these
stories, visions and ideas aren’t publicly published to the site.
Obama’s campaign site had [My.BarackObama](http://my.barackobama.com/)
(which will [“live
on”](http://my.barackobama.com/page/community/post/chrishughesatthecampaign/gGxZvh))
but there’s no corollary My.Change.gov – at least, not yet. On the other
hand, with only 71 days until we drop “elect” from “president-elect”,
maybe it makes more sense to hold off on deploying that kind of
infrastructure to a more permanent home. Personally, I’m rooting for
My.WhiteHouse.gov. My.USA.gov, My.House.Gov and My.Senate.Gov would also
be nice to have. Since Change.gov doesn’t publicly publish stories,
visions or ideas, I wanted to post my idea here as well.

(Side note, is it just me or is <http://www.usa.gov/> a pretty crappy
home page?)

Obviously, there are immediate [economic
issues](http://change.gov/agenda/economy/) to deal with and we need to
[bring the troops home from Iraq](http://change.gov/agenda/iraq/). But
after those, I would like to see the Obama administration put [renewable
energy](http://change.gov/agenda/energyenvironment/) at the top of it’s
priority list. I believe that investing in renewable energy as well as
the infrastructure to deliver that energy (the so called “[smart
grid](http://www.repoweramerica.org/elements/national-unified-smart-grid/)”)
should be our top priority because I believe it provides the most bang
for the buck when it comes policy.

First off, it will create jobs which is probably the most critical step
for turning the economy around. We’ve lost [1.2 million jobs in the past
year](http://www.bls.gov/news.release/jec.nr0.htm) and [unemployment is
at a 14 year
high](http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=96746406). 
Second, I’m a big believer in [Obama’s long-stated
goal](http://my.barackobama.com/page/content/newenergy_more#oil) of
eliminating our dependency on foreign oil. This would have the dual
benefit of improving our own economy while reducing the economic
strength of petro-dictatorships, some of which sponsor terrorism. Third,
shifting to clean renewable energy will reduce our carbon emissions. We
need to do more on the climate change front, but it’s a good start.
Finally, a smart grid would essentially be a new nationwide market for
energy. Even though many Republicans are in the pocket of big oil, they
are also big believers in free markets and individual responsibility, so
maybe smart grid legislation can be passed in a bipartisan way rather
than over the Republican’s wishes.

There seems to be a lot of indication already that [energy is Obama’s
top priority after an economic stimulus
package](http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/09/us/politics/09promises.html),
so maybe he doesn’t need to hear it from me. But that doesn’t change the
fact that the soon-to-be President is continuing to embrace to concepts
of Politics 2.0 in an effort to bring Americans together to solve our
toughest challenges. Here’s hoping he keeps it up long after “elect” is
dropped from his title.
