Julie, Patrick and I had dinner with my cousin [David
Schaffer](http://www.research.philips.com/InformationCenter/Global/FArticleDetail.asp?lArticleId=2625&lNodeId=936&channel=936&channelId=N936A2625)
tonight. David is a research fellow for Phillips and is an expert on
genetic algorithms. He was one of the founding members of the
[International Society for Genetic and Evolutionary
Computation](http://www.isgec.org/) and an editor for [Evolutionary
Computation
Journal](http://mitpress.mit.edu/journal-home.tcl?issn=10636560). He was
in town for the [Genetic and Evolutionary Computation COnference
2004](http://www.isgec.org/gecco-2004) (i.e. GECCO – cute). It was funny
that we are both software experts (though he is much more expert than
I), but had to explain to the other what we did. I explained SOA to him
and he explained genetic algorithms to me. We didn’t into too much depth
over dinner – it was much more fun to watch Patrick try and feed himself
noodles and talk about family stuff. However, I think I want to learn
more about this – I’m thinking there will be applicability of genetic
and evolutionary computation to SOA. Maybe I can get David to write for
my [JOURNAL](http://msdn.microsoft.com/architecture/journal).

David is also into genealogy, and he gave me a copy of the family tree
he’s been building up over the years. It’s all 20 year old console apps
and text files, but he wants to bring it to the web in order to better
enable collaboration among family members. Of course, David’s never
built a web app before. Sounds like a job for [Visual Web Developer 2005
Express](http://msdn.microsoft.com/express/vwd)! (BTW, what’s the
abbreviation for that? VWD?)
